 Director, Ar Rahman Montessori School, Alhaji Abdulkabir Sulaimon (left); National President LEAMPS, Alhaji AbdulWaheed Obalakun; Niyi Olapade; Dr Tajudeen Yusuf and Chief Executive Officer, Safamaq Nigeria Limited, Arch Mutiu Adeboye during the official launching of Ar Rahman Montessori School in Lagos.  The Director, Alhaji Abdul Kabir Sulaimon said the newly built school has been equipped to prove to Nigerians that Muslim schools are up to standard.He said Ar Rahman Montessori school has been in existence for the past 22 years and the selling point is the academic per excellence offerings to pupils.He praised God for the successful completion of the project. “Today’s event marks the official opening of Ar Rahman Montessori School, Ketu Branch. When we were told to vacate our former school premises at CMD Road, because the property was sold out, we decided to get a permanent site instead of renting another place.” What stands the school out, he said, is the provision of literacy and numeracy skills to pupils.“The school is of 21st century standard because we have playing facilities where our pupils can play. Likewise in our classes, we ensure that in each of the classrooms, we have the interactive board where the pupils can interact with and of course, which will also enhance their Arabic training.” The National President, League of Muslim School Proprietors, Alhaji Obalakan Abdul Waheed said the achievement is a blessing to the Muslim Ummah and most especially the association.He noted that the achievement of the school is one of the purposes why the league was formed. “It was formed to maintain and establish standard among Muslim schools. Alhamdulillah, this project is a testimony of high standard Muslim school has attained.” He urged the school to maintain its standard and not to derail from the existing standard. “If the school does not have a good standard, the parents would not have the trust to follow them down to the new location.” A parent, Comrade Rasak Olokooba said he was impressed about the standard of the school. “Parents believe that the best legacy you could give your child is education, but if you look at most schools we have, they do not have a good standard. When I discovered Ar Rahman Montessori School, I was happy that we have an Islamic institution of this nature.” he said. He urged the proprietor to ensure that the school sustains the standard. “There are schools in the world that have such standard and they sustain them over time. I pray that Ar-Rahman will be one of such schools.“On my way to the new location, I complained but when I got here and saw the new facility on ground, I am so impressed.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .