 (FILES) In this file photo taken on April 29, 2015, boxer Manny Pacquiao (L) talks with his trainer Freddie Roach during a news conference in Las Vegas, Nevada. – Roach has agreed to reunite with  Pacquiao for the Filipino fighter’s bout with Adrien Broner in January, it was reported on November 21, 2018. A Sports Illustrated report, citing a text message from Roach, said he had agreed to work with Pacquiao again following late-night talks with the fighter on November 20. “Manny reached out directly,” Roach was quoted as saying. “We sat together one-on-one. I’ll be in his corner Jan 19.” (Photo by Ethan Miller / GETTY IMAGES NORTH AMERICA / AFP)  Pacquiao was training in Manila ahead of the January 19 showdown against Adrien Broner, a fight that may be a prelude to a long-speculated on a rematch with Floyd Mayweather. The Roach-Pacquiao reunion comes after the men abruptly parted ways, breaking up one of boxing’s most famous double-acts, following the Filipino’s defeat to Jeff Horn in 2017. Roach was reported to have been upset by his dismissal but agreed to return after late-night talks with the fighter last week. “I tell people even in America that Freddie never left Team Pacquiao,” Pacquiao, 39, told reporters after hitting the mitts. “He is still involved in the training.” Pacquiao, the only fighter to win world titles in eight different weight divisions, got a boost to his storied, but slowing boxing career, after stopping Argentina’s Lucas Matthysse in July in Kuala Lumpur. Just over six months later he will be back in the ring, this time against Broner, a 29-year-old American, for his first US fight since 2016. “I am already excited. (After) more than two years I am coming back to Vegas to fight,” said Pacquiao. Speculation remains high that the Broner bout could be a warm-up for a sequel to 2015’s “Fight of the Century”, that Pacquiao lost to Mayweather on points. Undefeated Mayweather said in September he was ready to fight Pacquiao, but no definite plans have emerged since. Last week the Filipino champ told reporters he and Mayweather have talked about fighting again, but said he would see after the Broner match. Pacquiao did not address the speculation on Tuesday, saying only about any future matches: “I can fight anybody. We are not picky when it comes to our opponents.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .