 Chairperson, Executive Council, WIMBIZ, Olubunmi Aboderin-Talabi  The 2018 edition of the conference, which recently took place at the Eko Hotel and Suites, was with a grand distinction like no other, as men and women who have made positive impacts in the society and world at large, graced the occasion either as participants or plenary speakers, not leaving out upcoming women who are working towards making their own success in life. Delivering her welcome address, Chairperson, Executive Council, WIMBIZ, Olubunmi Aboderin-Talabi said, over the last 17 years, WIMBIZ has implemented programmes that inspire, empower, and advocated greater representation of women for leadership positions both in the public and private sectors. “WIMBIZ has a contributory associate pool of over 670 accomplished women and more than 8,100 women on its data base. We regularly collaborate with credible local multinational organisations to deliver programmes which have on aggregate, directly influenced over 105,555 women since inception,” she said. The conference, divided into plenary sessions, had speakers who discussed a series of topics to build a nation of empowered women, who will in turn become unstoppable by means of excellence. Topics ranged from entrepreneurship, business branding, to teachings on how to stay relevant in a deconstructed workplace, how to take back your career even after you have lost it or at the verge of losing it, being Mrs. Incredible – a way to creating a balanced career and family life, the art of happiness – a practical workshop that explained the gradual roadmap on how to attain happiness in all ramifications of life; leading with emotional intelligence – a deep dive on how emotional intelligence can be cultivated and maximised and why it is key to building an incredible  team that creates sustainable results. Mental health and emotional wellness was also discussed featuring firsthand testimonials with a psychologist and an internist; personal finance with details on how to build the future that you want with attainable investment options and smart retirement/estate planning, as well as, fit for purpose – a way to maximise physical ability and intellectual capacity through diet and what it means to be truly fit. Other plenary sessions discussed leadership beyond the title, technology takeover which emphasised  the fact that the world is in the era of technology and getting close to the fourth industrial revolution where living will technically revolve around absolute technology and the need for everyone, especially women, to work around staying ahead of the curve. The event also had a debate session where the topic, “The new technology: disruption VS distraction” was tackled to showcase the advantages and disadvantages of the new technology to human beings and the world at large with emphasis on the need for women to take advantage of the numerous benefits of technology to better their businesses, career and family. Among the event sponsors was SYNLAB, a medical laboratory committed to preventive medicine and helping women stay healthy, which gave out 1500 vouchers to women who participated in the WIMBIZ conference. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .