 Lanre Olusola  Goals are what take us forward in life; they are the oxygen to our dreams. They are the first steps to every journey we take and are also our last. Setting goals for yourself is a way to fuel your ambition. When you make a conscious decision of achieving a certain goal, even your powerful subconscious is stirred and it starts devising ideas and developing strategies to lead your ambition to fruition. “Begin with the end in mind”. – Stephen Covey Why Set Goals? 1.	Helps You Stay Focused: Everyone yearns to scale great heights in life, but how many of us truly end up doing that? Perhaps, a few. The main reason behind this is that most people lose focus on the way and fall. The greatest importance of goal setting is that it helps you stay focused to achieve what you seek. It acts like a steering wheel that maneuvers you along the right direction. Focus is the key. You cannot afford to take your eyes off the goal even for a moment. Goal setting helps you stay focused on your goals in life. 2.	Goals Help You Overcome Procrastination: When you set a goal for yourself you make yourself accountable to finish the task. This is in complete contrast with when you do things based off a whim and it doesn’t matter whether you complete them or not. Goals tend to stick in your mind and if not completed they give you a prompt reminder subconsciously. 3.	Sets Barriers: It helps you set barriers. Setting clear, solid goals for yourself gives you a firm fence line. It creates an invisible barrier, whereby you decide what you want, what liberties you have and what distractions you need to get rid of, in order to further your progress towards achieving your goal. It also induces some sense of accountability towards yourself. 4.	Enables You To Manage Your Time: By setting goals, you will be able to manage your time to your maximum benefit. You will have a clear idea of what you have to achieve in a particular frame of time. Thus, you can channel all your energy and concentration towards achieving it. You can split one major goal into a number of short-term goals bound by certain limits of time, which will make the task easier. It increases your productivity and efficiency manifold. That said, why do people fail, even after setting these goals? 1.	Excuses!! These are often easier to come up with than reasons why we need to do something. They can range from not having enough time to the stars not being correctly aligned. Whatever the case, they paralyze us.
]
2.	Fear: Some people are afraid of failure or, even worse, that they may actually succeed. As such, they don’t even bother trying to attain a goal. Such people lack belief in themselves and in their potential. In their mind, if they fail, everyone will think negatively of them. And if they succeed, people will be envious and think negatively of them. So it becomes a lose-lose situation no matter how they look at it. 3.	Not a strong enough “WHY”: What does your goal mean to you? Why have you set it? When we set goals for the wrong reasons and chase after things we do not really need or desire; we are not driven to pursue them, commit to them or achieve them and end up wasting a great deal of time, energy and money that could have been spent pursuing things that resonate with us. 4.	Lack of commitment to the goal: Even though people state they want to achieve a certain goal, in truth, a lot of them are really not committed to it. Because of this lack of commitment, they do not give the act of goal attainment their full effort, and as with anything in life, if you do not give it your all, you receive mediocre results. Commitment is crucial for attaining any goal. Are your daily actions bringing you closer to your goals? If they are not, do not expect the things in your life that you need and want changed, to change. Set Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Realistic and Time-bound (SMART) goals for every area of your life, which includes your Physical and Mental Health, Finance, Career and much more by signing up for our Goal Setting Master Class which runs from the 15th – 16th December 2018. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .