Presidential candidate of the Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN), Dr. Oby Ezekwesili A former President of Malawi, Joyce Banda, on Wednesday, endorsed Oby Ezekwesili, the presidential candidate of the Allied Congress Party of Nigeria for the 2019 general elections. Banda, who was Malawian president between April 2012 and May 2014, said in a tweet that Ezekwesili is “a servant leader pushing for a better Nigeria.” She explained how Ezekwesili had saved her from corruption allegations in 2013. “While fighting corruption during my presidency in 2013, Oby Ezekwesili advised me to protect myself with a forensic audit, which the United Kingdom supported,” the former president tweeted. Banda added that Ezekwesili  is “transparent, accountable daughter of Africa.” On Monday while formally launching her presidential campaign, the former Minister of Education assured Nigerians she would fulfil her electoral promises, adding that a situation where elected candidates deny their promises was bad for Nigeria’s growth. “The APC campaigned in 2015 on a manifesto that propagated the doctrine of restructuring. President Buhari went along with it every step of the way because it is all about getting into power for him. ”He won and then began to renege on his promises, including on restructuring. He suddenly remembered all the reasons why ‘structure is not the problem’ with Nigeria. Ezekwesili in a recent interview with The Guardian TV, she said that President Muhammadu Buhari has not done any spectacular work in his anti-graft fight. The Allied Congress for Progressives Change candidate said the anti-graft agencies including the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) are being used by the president to pick on members of opposition parties. “On corruption, President Buhari has not done any spectacular work,” Ezekwesili told Guardian TV. “What he has done is reduce the fight against corruption to a tunnel vision of EFCC hunting down those who have not joined the APC.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .