 The Managing Director of Hajj Mabrur Ventures Limited, Alhaji Abdul Hameed Solate (left); Executive Director of Jaiz charity Foundation, Imam Abdullahi Shuaib; The Coordinator of HCFI, Dr. Ibrahim Oreagba; Lagos State Commissioner for Home affairs, Dr. AbdulHakeem AbdulLateef and Amir Of Muslim Congress (TMC), Dr. Lukman AbdurRaheem during a walk organise by Human concern Foundation International in Lagos.  The walk starts 7 a.m. in the morning. Participants walk from Jibowu to Maryland and back to Jibowu. The Coordinator of HCFR, Dr. Ibrahim Oreagba said HCFI is dedicated to welfare and health of the populace. He said Work for life is one of the activities of the organization and it is designed to raise health consciousness of people and also serve as a practical keep fit initiative. “ Walk deflects diabetes, improves sex life, prevent obesity, lowers blood pressure, get you off medication, fade fibromyalgia pain, help beat breast cancer and reduce risk of stroke”, he said. Oreagba noted that regular walking give an optimal life, a life of peace and tranquility. “There are certain hormones in the body that we call endorphins, they are also known as feel good hormones. Each time you do exercise, these hormones are produced”, he said. He commended the corporate and individuals who contributed to make the walk possible. The Lagos State Commissioner for Home Affairs, Dr. Abdul Hakeem Abdul Lateef has urged Lagosians to imbibe the culture of exercise so as to live healthy lives. He urged Lagosians to change their life style by taking minimum of 10,000 steps everyday. “Taking walk everyday is a way to a new life, it strengthens the body defense mechanism. So many people are addicted to drugs and these drugs have a lot of side effect in the body. What we need to do is a change of life style by taking a minimum of 10,000 steps everyday, it is a way to a new life”, he said Abdul Lateef commended the foundation that has brought this into play and advise Lagosians to imbibe the spirit of walk so that they can remain healthy. The Amir of The Muslim Congress (TMC), Dr. Luqman AbdurRaheem said that the walking culture is dying in the society.  That is why HCFI has decided to do it yearly. “Whenever we showcase the walk, we make sure we tag it with the current situation in the country. “This time around as we are walking for life, we are also working for peace.  We have decided to promote peace and tranquility as we are doing the walk, due to communal crisis and war in different parts of the country,” he said. The Executive Director of the Jaiz Charity Foundation, Imam Abdullahi Shuaib urged Lagosians to take their health serious because a healthy man is a wealthy man. “If you want to be wealthy then you have to tread the part of being healthy. You need to know your physical status and your health status and this is one of the things that the foundation has been doing over the years to ensure that Nigerians keep fit in order to be wealthy,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .