Jeffrey Onuoha and Eunice Onyenemezu of Source Computer receiving award at the 2018 Nigeria Entrepreneur Award Daughter of the Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, KiKi Osinbanjo, was awarded the Most Promising Female Entrepreneur in 2018, at the fifth edition of Nigeria Entrepreneurs Award held in Lagos recently. The event which was tagged, ‘Driving economic growth and diversification through MSMEs’, saw the gathering of entrepreneurs rom all walks of life receiving various awards for their contributions to the economic development of the country. In recognition for his self- less pursuit to sustain human capital development, Group Managing Director, Nedamoaks, Dr. Kennedy Okonkwo , was honoured the Entrepreneur of the Year . Other recipients at the event, included Laundry King, who got the award for Most Outstanding Laundry Organisation of the Year,Victoria Crest Homes Ltd, emerged Most Reliable Real Estate Organisation of the Year, while AITEO Group went home with the award of the Organization Making a Difference in Nigeria. For its creativity in the construction sector, CCC International Engineering won the ward for Organisation Making a Difference (Construction), Dantata Town Developers Limited, received the Most Enterprising Real Estate Developer of the Year Award. For achieving good result in the health sector, Kogi State College of Medicine won the award for Best
Instuition of Health in the year. At the ICT sector, SLOK Energy Nigeria Ltd got the Oil and Gas Award. Most enterprising ICT organisation was awarded to Krystal Digital Network while Most Promising Entrepreneur Award (male) went to Onyekachi Iheme. In the banking sector, ECO Bank, Eagles Flight Microfinance Bank, Richway Microfinance Bank and other notable banks in Nigeria as well as top cooperate Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) received various awards at the ceremony . The high point at the award was the presentation of Corporate Social Responsibility Award in the banking sector given to Keystone Bank. The award was received by the Executive Director, Adeyemi Odusanya. Speaking at the award ceremony, the Executive Director of the Nigeria Entrepreneurs Award, Joshua Uwabor, showered praises on Nigerian entrepreneurs for their enormous contribution towards building economic growth and development . “ Nigeria Entrepreneurs Award is not just only to celebrate people but also to incite Entrepreneurs to do more and accelerate economic recovery and stability. The event, which was organised in partnership with the Global Entrepreneurship Network in Nigeria, celebrated winners from the banking sector, real estate and the entertainment sector’, he said. Nigeria Entrepreneurs Award is the number one platform that identifies, celebrates and honours Nigerian entrepreneurs, who have made ipmacts in their various endeavours and are also inspiration to others. The event is an initiative of Emagez Solutions and endorsed by Small & Medium Enterprise Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN). To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .