 Georgia Oboh  At the weekend Morocco, Oboh braved the odds to qualify for the finals of the Ladies European Tour (LET) Qualifying School. This means that she is at the verge of joining the Tour. Campaigning in a field of 65 experienced players from 38 countries, Oboh finished third in the pre- qualifying school A to qualify for the final scheduled for the same Morocco from December 16 to 20. The Ladies European Tour is the premier Ladies Golf Tour covering four continents, including Africa, Asia, Oceania, and Europe with events in the Middle East as well.The Ladies European Tour Qualifying School is the gateway for female players to compete at an elite level globally. It is usually held at the end of each season to establish which players, not otherwise exempt, will gain their playing privileges on the Tour for the following season through a qualifying competition. It’s a tough school for one of female golf’s most coveted prizes, namely Membership of The Ladies European Tour, the voice of female golf and a place among the female golfing elite. Along the way, dreams are made and hopes shattered in equal measure.With her performance at the weekend, Oboh has broken the ground for a whole generation of Nigerian and African lady golfers who are enthused and enthralled to herald in a new queen in their midst by qualifying through the first stage of the Qualifying School. Oboh’s response to this amazing result has been one of excitement mixed with the feelings of part of a dream come true. “Since I was eight, it has been my dream to play on the Ladies European Tour and that dream is starting to unfold this week,” she said.She arrived in Marrakech, Morocco with father, Godfrey Oboh on October 26 to begin preparations for the tournament just a week after competing at the Youth Olympic Games in Argentina.“On arriving in Marrakech, we had a couple of rainy days and that halted our practice a bit but it was okay because we also needed to rest just coming from Argentina. “It was a hectic schedule but we had to do that so that we could hopefully take advantage of the break between stage one and two to play in the upcoming Côte d’Ivoire Open on November 15 to 18. I had always hoped that I would begin my professional career in Africa and God is allowing that to happen,” she said.
With this development, Oboh hopes to inspire junior girl golfers on the African Continent just as Seri Pak was to the Koreans. At 17, Georgia Oboh is the youngest African to qualify for the Ladies European Tour School and was also the youngest player in the Pre-Qualifying School A. Being 17, she had to be given special permission to play as the policy is only to admit 18 years or older to the tour and this means that she must be accompanied by a parent to every event on the LET until she turns 18. Oboh is motivated by the encouraging sacrifices that her team makes for her daily, including her full time caddy Dad; stylist and personal arranger, mum along with computer whiz-kid brother, Nathan and aspiring pro-golfer sister, Gabby.The teenager believes this achievement hopes to help provide more corporate and individual sponsors to her dream, as she needs stable, and consistent financial partners in her venture into the professional world of women’s golf. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .