 Nigeria’s midfielder John Obi Mikel (L) and Josef Husbauer (R) of Czech Republic vie for the ball during the international friendly football match between Nigeria and Czech Republic in Rannersdorf, Austria on June 6, 2018. / AFP PHOTO / VLADIMIR SIMICEK  The 31-year-old has been missing in action for the senior team since his last appearance for the country at the Russia 2018 World Cup. He missed the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) doubleheader qualifier against Seychelles and the Mediterranean Knights of Libya as he was excused from the team after only recently recovering from injury, Mikel also missed the AFCON qualifier with South Africa on November 17 and a friendly tie against Uganda three days later despite playing for his club that weekend. His absence has since attracted different speculations if he had quietly quit the national football. However, on Sunday while answering questions at the launch of his Mikel Obi Foundation said he is on a break. “A lot has been said about my absence in the national team. I think if you have been doing something for a very long time, you will definitely ask for a little break. And that’s what I have been on, I have been on break. I am not tired yet, think the day I will retire, I will let everyone know before I make the statement, Mikel said. Mikel disclosed that he needs to be 100 per cent fit and have the right motivation to be ready to be at AFCON and he is working to achieving that. “I am happy to see how the team is doing well without me which is very good so that when I retire, I leave the team in very good hands. I am happy now, we have qualified for the nations cup, so we’ll see what happens,” Mikel said. Born in Jos, Plateau State, the superstar made his debut for Nigeria in 2005 against Libya in a friendly game. He has played for Nigeria at three Africa Cup of Nations tournaments, three FIFA World Cups and won an Olympic Bronze medal at the 2016 Olympic games.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .