 Representative of Honorable Minister of State, Budget and Planning, Suleiman Habu, and Managing Director, Konica Minolta in Nigeria, Mr. Izzat Debs, at the unveiling… in Abuja  Speaking at the unveiling, during a Develop Dealer conference in Lagos, Managing Director, Skysat Technologies, Izzat Debs, said the printing solutions are in line with professional office communication need. “We are pacesetters that make creative contribution towards shaping the future. We do not only analyse and recommend, we also assess, design and guide. Also, increasing our customers’ productivity is our primary objective. “The Develop multifunction copiers available now in Nigeria include black and white and color multifunction copier and printers, with a full range of software solutions adapted to the needs of the market. We also have Ineo 185 and 226 copiers. Konic Minolta is among the top five brands in the world today and if they didn’t have successful products, we won’t be where we are today,” Debs added. He noted that Nigerians seek quality at affordable prices and the Develop brand delivers both. On dealers’ gain, he said: “Dealers can put their own stickers on the machines to sell to their customers and this we believe, would give them a sense of belonging. Our technicians, who are trained in Germany, will in turn train our dealers and their technicians on the use, general workings and repair.” Some of the new features includes user authentication wherein owners can set passwords for different levels of security and usages, multiple sharing, mobile printing, and others and easy access to connector apps that connect to Google maps, evernote, among others. Senior Executive, Indirect Sales, Konica Minolta Business Solutions Europe GmbH, David Nuttall, said their extensive international sales network represented by independent distributors and specialist outlets are in more than 60 countries. “Konica Minolta enables its clients to champion the digital era with its unique imaging expertise and data processing capabilities. We create relevant solutions for our customers and solve issues faced by society,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .