For a long time, women have been warned to stay off certain fish and fish oil supplements especially those containing mercury. This is because of the danger it poses to the child. Now, a review has shown that daily fish supplements reduce the chances of having a premature birth by 42 per cent.
A review of 70 studies by researchers from the University of Adelaide, SA Health and Medical Research Institute (SAHMRI) and Women’s and Children’s Hospital found that a certain type of fatty acids found in oily fish reduces the risk of having premature birth before 37 weeks by 11 per cent and by 42 per cent before 34 weeks. Fish oil The researchers studied the two types of omega 3 fatty acids – eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) contained in some of these fish. In fact, the review suggests that women take supplements such as cod liver oil and omega-3 tablets every day from 12 weeks oil because it contains fatty acids EPA and DHA. This is because ‘high-quality evidence’ a daily pill will prevent visual impairment and learning delay, scientists suggest. According to Professor Philippa Middleton from SAHMRI: ‘This is one of the reasons omega-3 supplementation in pregnancy is of such great interest to researchers around the world. There are not many options for preventing premature birth, so these new findings are very important for pregnant women, babies and the health professionals who care for them’. ‘We don’t yet fully understand the causes of premature labour, so predicting and preventing early birth has always been a challenge. ‘This is one of the reasons omega-3 supplementation in pregnancy is of such great interest to researchers around the world.’ Omega 3 pills, capsules and oils are one of the most popular type of supplement, with more than a quarter of people who take any kind of supplement choosing omega 3. And the daily dose required must contain “between 500 and 1000 milligrams (mg) of long-chain omega-3 fats (containing at least 500mg of DHA)”