 Manish Rohtagi is the Business Head for Simba Group of Companies. Simba Industries launched KStar UPS (Uninterruptible Power Supply)  The poor power situation in Nigeria has contributed to the death of many start-up firms and small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs). This challenging situation has worsened the business terrain. Reports have it that many business organisations have left the country owing to the epileptic power situation. The power supply in Nigeria is characterised by chronic power supply outage as a result of the supply of energy failure to match the demand for energy. The poor state of power supply has affected the household and industries in varying degrees. The Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), claimed that the power challenge in the country has contributed significantly to the drop in its membership. Indeed, the constant power outages have left Nigerians emotionally traumatised and induced cost escalation on their businesses. The poor energy supply to meet the domestic demand has led most policy makers to suggest that government should look beyond the conventional energy supply that is depletable to renewable energy. Experts believe the development of renewable energy could help change the narrative, if there are actionable policies and strategies. They also called for public private partnership strategies to boost innovations that would, most importantly, enable operators, especially SMEs to grow. As such, to salvage the situation relatively, Simba Industries launched KStar UPS (Uninterruptible Power Supply), a technology that can aid business growth and enhance continuity providing a power backup solution that is capable of managing essential electrical equipment including hospital diagnostic and surgical apparatus, data centers and bank ATMs. Ranked sixth among all global UPS brand with shared 5.4 per cent in global market, KStar products can handle a wide range of applications, which have peculiar power needs, such as factory machinery with huge power requirements, and where power failure can lead to significant cost escalation. Speaking at the launch in Lagos, Representative of Simba Industries, Prasanna Sridhar, said KStar offers high quality products and full service support to more than 90 countries. Sridhar noted that the different ranges of KStar UPS can cater to every power demand and needs across different sectors, including manufacturing, oil and gas, medical establishments, businesses and other key industries. “Hundreds of thousands of businesses around the world depend on reliable power back-up solutions for their systems. Downtime is simply not an option for them, as it results in potentially millions of dollars in losses per second. The KStar UPS draws on the latest research and development to offer unparalleled power backup solutions for a diverse range of industries,” he said. Head of Simba Service, Suresh Kumar, said KStar UPS is supported by Simba Service in Nigeria, which provides power audit consultation, installation, 24 hour customer support, and annual maintenance contracts. He added: “At Simba, we believe that total customer satisfaction is only achieved, when a good quality product is supported by attentive and responsive customer care and after sales service. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .