 Prince Charles enjoying Nigerian hospitality the recent British Council Festival during his visit… in Lagos  BMATT is funded by the cross-government Conflict Stabilisation and Security Fund (CSSF) with aims to develop the capacity and capability of the Nigerian Navy to counter insurgency in North East Nigeria and to deliver maritime security in the Gulf of Guinea. Prince Charles then proceeded to Kingfisher Club to attend an A4S Sustainability Roundtable with executives from medium and large sized businesses. The visit was to discuss the role they play in spearheading sustainability within their organisations and overcoming challenges and inspiring action by finance leaders to drive fundamental shift towards resilient business models and sustainable economy. Subsequently, the Prince headed to the British High Council for the British Council Festival to celebrate Nigeria’s arts industry and to mark the 75th anniversary of British Council in Nigeria. He was received by Country Director, British Council Nigeria, Ms Lucy Pearson. He was also entertained by South-West panegyric musical performance. At the festival, the prince was introduced to a number of young entrepreneurs from the world of digital, music, film, fashion and social entrepreneurship. He also met with fashion designers who displayed a range of contemporary local fabrics and indigenous Nigerian textiles such as aso-oke-weaving demonstration and finished products. The Prince of Wales, who toured round each sector, expressed appreciation that the young entrepreneurs were obviously putting a lot of hard work into their creative arts. After the exhibition, Prince Charles then proceeded to the Deputy High Commissioner’s Residence for a grand reception where he viewed a bronze sculpture of ‘Her Majesty The Queen’ created in 19656 by Nigeria’s modernist visual artist, Ben Enwonwu. Prince Charles also met members of Nigeria Commonwealth Walkway Committee (NCWC), which was drafted by the Outdoor Trust in February 2017, which greed to the principle of NCWC in March 2017. The 7km route connects 19 points of interest with an additional point connecting to the Oba of Lagos’ Palace.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .