Teni Apata shot into the limelight with her unique vocals in Fargin. Sheer talent has made Teni stand out amongst other artists in the entertainment industry. Her musical name summarises her identity in the music sector- Teni the entertainer. Photo: Youtube Q: What made you interested in a musical career? A: Music has always been there right from childhood. I always loved singing, and it came naturally. Music for me is spiritual and has helped me through the good times and the bad times. I’ve loved and played music for as long as I can remember. Q: Is your family musical? A: Yes, they are. Everyone in my family loves listening to music; I like to create it too. I remember me and my elder sister, Niniola, used to entertain our house with our music sessions, so it has always been part of us. Now both I and my sister are entertaining the country at the moment with our beautiful talents. Q: Which famous musicians have you learned from? A: I’ve learnt from more legends like King Wasiu Ayinde, Ebenezer Obey, King Sunny Ade, Dolly Parton and Christy Igbokwe. Their unique sounds make me so emotional. They made good music that impacted lives positively and I love to do too. Photo Pulse Q: What are your fondest memories? At your house? In your neighbourhood or town? A: Let’s say I was actually Teniola the entertainer, always wanting to make everyone around me happy especially laugh.  I recall Niniola and me disturbing people at home with our music sessions which were silly and interesting at the same time. Also, I will never forget playing the drums for some former Lagos State Governors like Mohammed Buba Marwa, Bola Ahmed Tinubu and Babatunde Fashola, when they were in office. Proudly representing my school band is definitely one of my favourite childhood memories. Q: Which old records or tapes influenced you? A: I am influenced by King Wasiu Ayinde Marshall’s Talazo Fuji Music Party, Shina Peters’s Ace and many more. Photo: Instagram Q: How do you balance music with other obligations? A: Well, if it is as important as the music, I’ll surely make time for it. I have a strong team that plans and organises my work calendar in a way that gives me the right work-rest balance. It can all get overwhelming so balance is key. Q: What should fans expect from you this year? A: So much has happened this year already with Askamaya and Case still topping charts. But there’s still time to drop one or two surprises before the end. We are close to the end of the year but I might just be sneaking in a few surprises for the fans. Stay tuned! Q: What advice would you give to beginners who are nervous? A: It’s okay to be nervous but work hard, be patient and consistent; your work will speak for you. 