The media mogul, Oprah Winfrey, interviewed the former United States of America’s First Lady, Michelle Obama, for the December edition of Elle magazine. The interview covered Michelle’s new book “Becoming”, marriage,politics and many more. Below are excerpts from the Elle magazine: Oprah: You mention this phrase that I like so much, I think it should be on a T-shirt or something. “Failure,” you say, “is a feeling long before it becomes an actual result. It’s vulnerability that breeds with self- doubt and then is escalated, often deliberately, by fear.” Failure is a feeling long before it becomes an actual result: You knew this when? Michelle: Oh, first grade. I could see my neighbourhood changing around me. We moved there in the 1970s. We lived with my great-aunt in a very little apartment over a home she owned. She was a teacher, and my great-uncle was a Pullman porter, so they were able to purchase a home in what was then a predominantly white community. Our apartment was so small that what was probably the living room was divided up into three “rooms.” Two were me and my brother’s; each fit a twin bed, and it was just wood panelling that separated us—there was no real wall, we could talk right between us. Like, “Craig?” “Yep?” “I’m up. You up?” We would throw a sock over the panelling as a game.   Living in the White House for eight years, @MichelleObama had staffers providing everything she could have possibly needed, except for time. “What I came to realize is that there was absolutely no time to reflect in the White House,” she tells @oprah for ELLE’s cover interview. “We moved at such a breakneck pace from the moment we walked in those doors until the moment we left. It was day in and day out because we, Barack and I, really felt like we had an obligation to get a lot done.”⁣⁣ ⁣⁣ Now, with time to process two terms in office—a historic run of accomplishments and struggles—Obama has released her highly anticipated memoir, “Becoming.” Ahead of her book release, the former FLOTUS gets real about her marriage to Barack, the threats made against her children, and life after the White House.⁣⁣ ⁣⁣ ELLE December 2018 credits:⁣⁣ ⁣⁣ Editor-in-chief: @ninagarcia⁣⁣⁣⁣ Photographer: @millermobley⁣⁣ Stylist: @meredithkoop⁣⁣ Hair: @yenedamtew⁣⁣ Makeup: @carlraymua⁣⁣ Wearing: @Dior Chief photography director: @alixbcampbell A post shared by  Elle Magazine (@elleusa) on Nov 12, 2018 at 3:05am PST Oprah: You also write, “When it came down to it, I felt vulnerable when he was away.” I thought that was kind of amazing, to hear a modern woman—a First Lady—admit that. Michelle: I feel vulnerable all the time. And I had to learn how to express that to my husband, to tap into those parts of me that missed him—and the sadness that came from that—so that he could understand. He didn’t understand distance in the same way. You know, he grew up without his mother in his life for most of his years, and he knew his mother loved him dearly, right? I always thought love was up close. Love is the dinner table, love is consistency, it is the presence. So I had to share my vulnerability and also learn to love differently. It was an important part of my journey of becoming. Understanding how to become us.   @MichelleObama knows you think she and #BarackObama are #RelationshipGoals, but she insists, “marriage is hard.” During a candid conversation with @oprah for ELLE’s December issue, Michelle reveals she and Barack underwent marriage counseling. ⁣ ⁣ “You go because you think the counselor is going to help you make your case against the other person. ‘Would you tell him about himself?!’ And lo and behold, counseling wasn’t that at all. It was about me exploring my sense of happiness.” Link in bio to read more from her honest interview.⁣ ⁣ ELLE December 2018 credits:⁣ ⁣ Editor-in-chief: @ninagarcia⁣ Photographer: @millermobley⁣ Stylist: @meredithkoop⁣ Hair: @yenedamtew⁣ Makeup: @carlraymua⁣ Wearing: @cushnie Chief photography director: @alixbcampbell A post shared by  Elle Magazine (@elleusa) on Nov 12, 2018 at 5:26am PST Oprah: You end the book by talking about what will last. You say, “I continue, too, to keep myself connected to a force that’s larger and more potent than any one election, or leader, or news story—and that’s optimism. For me, this is a form of faith, an antidote to fear.” Do you feel that optimism for who we are, as a nation, becoming?
Michelle: Yes. We have to feel that optimism. For the kids. We’re setting the table for them, and we can’t hand them crap. We have to hand them hope. Progress isn’t made through fear. We’re experiencing that right now. Fear is the coward’s way of leadership. But kids are born into this world with a sense of hope and optimism. No matter where they’re from. Or how tough their stories are. They think they can be anything because we tell them that. So we have a responsibility to be optimistic. And to operate in the world in that way.   @MichelleObama on embracing vulnerability: “I feel vulnerable all the time. And I had to learn how to express that to my husband, to tap into those parts of me that missed him—and the sadness that came from that—so that he could understand. It was an important part of my journey of becoming. Understanding how to become us.” #MichelleObama talks her marriage to #BarackObama, her new memoir #Becoming, and why she still feels optimistic about America in our December 2018 cover story. Link in bio. ELLE December 2018 credits: Editor-in-chief: @ninagarcia Photographer: @millermobley Stylist: @meredithkoop Hair: @yenedamtew Makeup: @carlraymua Chief photography director: @alixbcampbell A post shared by  Elle Magazine (@elleusa) on Nov 12, 2018 at 6:41am PST   “Kids are born into this world with a sense of hope and optimism. No matter where they’re from. Or how tough their stories are. They think they can be anything because we tell them that. So we have a responsibility to be optimistic. And to operate in the world in that way.” @MichelleObama is still optimistic. Link in bio for ELLE’s cover story. ELLE December 2018 credits: Editor-in-chief: @ninagarcia Photographer: @millermobley Stylist: @meredithkoop Hair: @yenedamtew Makeup: @carlraymua Chief photography director: @alixbcampbell A post shared by  Elle Magazine (@elleusa) on Nov 12, 2018 at 8:32am PST