• Pledges Support For Sports In Ekiti
Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi has pledged to support sporting activities and other programmes that will ensure peace and friendliness among the people of the state. The governor spoke yesterday in Ado Ekiti, the state capital while receiving the Torch of Unity for the 19th National Sports Festival (Abuja 2018), and said his vision for the state was to make it a place where people can thrive and live their lives in dignity. Fayemi, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary in the state Ministry of Information, Youths and Sports Development, Kola Ajumobi at the Oluyemi Kayode Stadium, said that it was not only a clarion call to all but a move to chart a new course for a sustainable sporting development of the state. In attendance was the representative of Mr. Solomon Dalong, the Minister of Youths and Sports, the Southwest Zonal Coordinator, Mr. Ajao Olufemi, who led other delegations. According to Fayemi, “Ekiti has the highest number of professors and academic pioneers per capital in Nigeria and also have many of our citizens who are leading lights in every field of human endeavour, as well as those who are at the frontiers of research in the academia and scholastic practice all over the world. “It is therefore pertinent and logical to turn towards the attainment of feats in sport and games. In the recent past, the fastest man and woman in athletics came from Ekiti State, I am referring to Oludoji Fasuba and Damola Osayomi respectively, who were both shining stars at their prime.” “Our greatest resources in Ekiti State remains our people, most especially our youths and since human beings are the measure of all things, then healthy and enlightened people can drive the sustainable development we want to achieve in the state. “Let me recall that traditionally, the “Unity Torch” is a symbol of peace and unity which is taken round the capital capitals of all the states in the federation in order to herald the National Sports Festival and to transmit the message of peace and brotherliness among the people of Ekiti in particular and Nigeria in general,” he said To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .