 Governor Gboyega Isiaka of Osun State (middle) and his wife, Kafayat, being administered oath of office by the Chief Judge, Justice Adepele Ojo, in Osogbo…. yesterday.  Governor Adegboyega of Osun State has pledged to prioritise the welfare of workers and retirees by ensuring prompt payment of salaries and entitlements. In his inauguration speech yesterday in Osogbo, the new chief executive said he would not betray the confidence reposed in him by the people, promising to build on the achievements of his predecessor, Rauf Aregbesola. Also speaking, President Muhammadu Buhari, represented by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, reiterated his commitment to free and fair elections next year. He said efforts were ongoing to tackle the nation’s economic challenges through   diversification by developing the solid mineral sector. The president noted that when fully on stream, Osun, with its huge mineral deposits, would be a major beneficiary.He revealed that the Federal Government had set aside N55.1 billion to prosecute a basic health care programme for women and children, adding that the state as well as Abia, Edo, Niger and Kaduna are among the first beneficiaries of the scheme billed for launch next month. Listing the infrastructure being executed in Osun to improve the welfare of the citizens, Buhari pledged his administration’s continued assistance to the state.He reiterated the resolve of his government to the school-feeding programme running currently In 26 states, including Osun. Besides, the president said opportunity had also been created for the participation of 20,000 youths from the state in the N-Power scheme of the Federal Government Read More: APC’s Isiaka Oyetola wins Osun governorship election Congratulating Oyetola and the All Progressives Congress (APC) on the epochal occasion, the Nigerian leader urged the governor   to complete all projects initiated by his predecessor and pay attention to the welfare of women, workers and youths.In his remarks, APC national leader, Tinubu boasted that the party remained unperturbed, as it would continue to preside over the nation’s affairs. He said Nigerians were not ready to leave governance in the “hands of those who mismanaged it (the country).””No shaking and no going back to the era of greed, selfishness and corruption of the past that has held back our progress. “I’m a politician, don’t stop me from talking politics today,” the former governor of Lagos State said. Tinubu thanked president, urging him to ride on because according to him, “there is no other party here in the South West”.He greeted the new governor and urged him to deliver on campaign promises. The event was attended by six governors, including Akinwumi Ambode (Lagos); Abiola Ajimobi (Oyo); Yahaya Bello (Kogi); Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti); Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo), and Abdulai Ganduje (Kano). Also in attendance were Tinubu’s wife, Oluremi; APC national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole; erstwhile interim chair, Chief Bisi Akande; Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi; Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi; General Alani Akinrinade and one-time governor of Ogun State, Chief Olusegun Osoba. The rest were ex-governor of Ekiti State, Chief Adeniyi Adebayo; Minister of Health, Professor Isaac Adewole, and former Minister of State for Defence, Musiliu Obanikoro. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .