Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar / AFP PHOTO / PIUS UTOMI EKPEI • I will rely on Nigerians to defeat Buhari, PDP candidate replies
• Opposition accuses Buhari, ruling party of plotting to liquidate stakeholders’ accounts The All Progressives Congress (APC) has alleged that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, lack the financial resources to prosecute the presidential campaigns. APC’s Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena, made the allegation in a statement. According to him, the cash strapped situation was caused by the stringent measures put in place by the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. APC further claimed that information at its disposal indicates that Atiku’s recent strategy meeting in Dubai, United Arab Emirate, to raise funds from public coffers did not succeed. Nabena said the PDP leaders are in serious difficulties and dilemma on how to source funds to run the Atiku presidential campaign. “The anti-corruption agencies should gird their loins and ensure that all sources of campaign funds by the political parties are closely monitored, while recovering the funds looted during the Jonathan era,” the statement said. But Atiku dismissed the claim by the APC, adding that he would surely realise his presidential ambition through the free will of the electorate. Paul Ibe, who spoke on behalf of Atiku said: “Nothing can stop an idea whose time has come. Nothing can stop the zeal of Nigerians to elect the president of their choice. This election will not be won by money, lies, propaganda or intimidation, but by the supreme will of the Nigerian people as expressed in their vote. Meanwhile, the PDP has alerted of alleged moves by the Buhari presidency and the APC to procure frivolous court orders from compromised judicial officers to liquidate accounts belonging to critical stakeholders of the party. The PDP in a statement yesterday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said it is already aware of how instructions have been given to certain agencies of government to trail and throw up fabrications to create impression of financial infractions around the accounts. According to the party “already, accounts belonging to critical stakeholders are being frisked with a view to having them liquidated ahead of the general elections. It is clear that the only reason for this is to ensure that our party and candidates are deprived of access to funds for their campaigns. But APC and the Buhari presidency have failed to realise that the 2019 election is now a battle between them and Nigerians, who are the bastion of the PDP. “Nigerians have since taken over the saddle for the quest to rid the nation of this incompetent, vicious and vengeful administration, for which they are now freely making contributions and sacrifices. “They have collectively resolved to vote out President Buhari and not even the APC’s on-going vote-buying strategy and intimidation can scuttle that resolve,” the statement said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .