 [FILE PHOTO] Photo credit: Sun news  Fayose was arraigned by the EFCC on October 22 alongside his company — Spotless Investment Ltd, on 11 counts over alleged N6.9 billion fraud. He had pleaded not guilty to the charges, and the court granted him bail in the sum of N50 million with one surety in like sum and adjourned the case till Monday for trial. At the trial, which lasted for several hours and for which the EFCC called four witnesses, Mr. Rotimi Jacobs (SAN) appeared for the anti-graft agency, while Kanu Agabi (SAN) and Olalekan Ojo (SAN) represented the first and second accused persons respectively. Jacobs then called on first prosecution witness, Mr. Lawrence Akande, who is a banker to testify. Akande told the court that in June 2014, he was called by one Abiodun Agbele who informed him that he had about N1.2 billion cash lodgement to make in Akure. He said that afterwards, he also received a call from Fayose on the same issue, adding that since the lodgement was in Akure, he placed a call across to his colleague over there to follow up same. Also, he said that the second accused (Spotless Ltd) is a customer of his bank with account at Dugbe Branch in Ibadan. The prosecutor then showed the witness some account opening documents of Spotless Nig. Ltd, De Privateer Ltd, Still Earth Ltd as well as account document of first accused. The witness confirmed the documents and they were admitted by the court and marked Exhibit A. The witness, who told the court that he made statements to the EFCC on June 6, 2016, and confirmed that he made no mention of the first accused in his earlier statement, said that he only made mention of Fayose in his subsequent statements. However, during cross-examination by the defence counsel, Ojo, the witness stated that he did not consider the money as proceeds of illicit source. The EFCC then called its second witness, Mr. Abiodun Oshordi, also a banker, said the total sum amounted to N1.2 billion, adding that they were lodged into accounts supplied by Agbele. Justice Mojisola Olatoregun thereafter adjourned till January 21 and 28 for continuation of trial.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .