 SuperSport Presenter, Chisom Mbonu-Ezeoke (left); NPFL Highest Goal Scorer, Junior Lokosa; and GMD, Eunisell Limited, Chika Ikenga at the Eunisell award ceremony for highest goal scorer for the 2017/2018 NPFL season in Lagos… yesterday.  According to the organisers of the award, the “Eunisell Boot seeks not only to honour the top performer, but to make players work on their game, be more competitive and boost the profile and interest in the domestic league.”
 
Speaking at the event, Group Managing Director of Eunisell Limited, Chika Ikenga said, “We are here to honour the top goal scorer of the 2017/2018 NPFL season – Junior Lokosa of Kano Pillars who scored a magnificent 19 goals in a season that was cut short, making his achievement even more memorable.With each goal valued at N200, 000 by Eunisell, Lokosa received the sum of N3.8 million and a trophy.” Ikenga disclosed that football was Eunisell’s main corporate social responsibility programme, adding, “we recognize that it creates opportunities for our youth and fosters and nurtures their talent. “Importantly, it allows them to fulfill their dreams. There are so many success stories of our young players who have gone on to become stars both in Nigeria and in premier leagues overseas. But for that to continue and grow, the game requires corporate Nigeria to get behind it and we are proud of our involvement.”
 Beaming from ear to ear, a visibly excited Lokosa said, “I am overwhelmed by Eunisell’s determination to change the status of Nigerian footballers and the game. Today it is Junior Lokosa tomorrow, it could be another player but Lokosa has said he already has his sights set on the 2018/2019 Eunisell Boot. “It is a big challenge for all of us in the league and we must keep improving so that other companies will emulate what Eunisell is doing here. Winning this award has brought me into the limelight and has boosted my profile, now I am in the Super Eagles.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .