Group Managing Director of Zenith Bank, Peter Amangbo, presenting the winners’ trophy to First Bank Basketball Captain, Nkechi Akashili at the end of the Women Basketball League final at the National Stadium, Lagos…yesterday. First Bank Basketball Club yesterday at the Indoor Sports Hall of the National Stadium, Lagos, defeated Dolphins to retain the Zenith Bank Women Basketball League title. The Elephant Girls beat Dolphins by 84 to 66 points. The champions won all the four quarters of the game despite Dolphins’ endeavours in the match, which Nkem Akaraiwe was declared the most valuable player First Bank Coach, Peter Ahmedu praised his team for their victory, saying hard work and determination led to the team’s success. Speaking at the end of the game, Zenith Bank’s Managing Director, Peter Amangbo thanked the players for their sportsmanship throughout the competition, which featured the best six teams in the elite division. Amangbo expressed his happiness on the level of the competition this year despite the fact that it was an abridged league, just as he extolled the virtues of the late owner of one of the finalists, Dolphins Basketball team, Wale Aboderin, who died early this year. “I want to use this opportunity to remember a personal friend of mine and also the owner of Dolphins Women team, Aboderin,” he said. “We all missed him today and the whole of the basketball family but I am happy that the players and the family are living his dream. “I want to assure everyone that it is no longer a sponsorship, but a partnership with the NBBF that will last for long. “I want to appeal to all the players to be more dedicated and focused on their careers and also look up to the future.” For their victory, First Bank got N1 million, while second-placed Dolphins went home with N500, 000. Earlier, Customs defeated newcomers, MFM 43-36 in the third place match, which reward was N250, 000. First Bank and Dolphins will represent Nigeria in the African Club Basketball Championship Zone Three qualifiers in Benin Republic later this year. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .