 [FILE PHOTO] PDP leader, Uche Secondus  The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the defectors included the PRP Youth Leader in Zaria, Mr Ibrahim Hassan-Pako, and a prominent PDP member, Hajiya Sa’adiya Mohammed-Mai-Yanga. Receiving the defectors at Tudun Wada Ward in Zaria on Saturday, the APC Chairman in the LGA, Alhaji Aliyu Idris-Ibrahim, assured the defectors that they would be treated fairly. He urged the new members to feel at home and be supportive to ensure success of the party in 2019. Idris-Ibrahim said that active support of the defectors in the general elections would be critical to APC victory. He said that APC members in the council area were determined to convince more Nigerians to support President Muhammadu Buhari and Gov. Nasiru el-Rufa’I’s re-election bid because of their good performances. “This is one of the reasons that our leaders embarked on door-to-door sensitisation of people which culminated into what we are witnessing today, receiving over 850 defectors from different political parties. “It is our hope that more will join the train very soon, and we are going to assist them with the necessary support,” said. The APC Zone One Chairman, Alhaji Hussaini Central-Store, expressed satisfaction at the defection. “I want to assure you that, as we receive you today, we are all equal; you are entitled to all rights and privileges as any other member of the party. “All of you will receive your membership cards this week to formally make you bonafide members of the party. “ I want to use this medium to call on members of the electorate to elect APC candidates at all levels,’’ he said. Earlier, the APC Chairman, Tudun Wada Ward, Alhaji Alhassan Mohammed-Qassim, described the occasion as historic, and encouraged the defectors to be active members of the party. He urged them to exhibit a high sense of responsibility, loyalty and commitment toward ensuring the success of the party in the 2019 General Elections Speaking on behalf of all the defectors, Hassan-Pako said they were moved by the good leadership of APC. He called on the party’s leadership at all levels of governance to maintain good leadership.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .