Super Falcons ready to move to the next stage of the CAF AWCON holding in Ghana after today’s group B duel against Nzalang Nacional of Equitorial Guinea Super Falcons go into today’s match against the Nzalang Nacional of Equitorial Guinea at the on-going Total Women’s Africa Cup of Nations (AWCON) in Ghana with the knowledge that nothing short of a resounding victory will serve their course. It is the last Group B match of the championship and the Nigerians say they are ready for the task. After losing 0-1 in their first game to the Bafana Bafana of South Africa, the defending champions picked up their pieces and returned to winning ways by whitewashing Zambia 4-0 in their second match. Equitorial Guinea seem to be the weeping country in the group having lost heavily both to Zambia and South Africa, who top the table after two wins. Speaking to thenff.com on today’s match, Falcons’ captain, Onome Ebi said the team was fully motivated to go all out to win today’s game and eventually retain the title they won at the last edition in Cameroon. “The NFF have done their part very well. The ball is now in our court to do our part and make Nigerians happy, by winning against Equatorial Guinea on Saturday and going ahead to win a ticket to the World Cup and also retain our African title. “We are getting back to shape. In the first game against South Africa, it was not the Super Falcons that Africa knew that turned up. Defeat made us to talk hard to ourselves. “I have strong faith in the team that we are going to beat Equitorial Guinea and then we will take the knockout stage one match at a time. “Nigerians should keep praying for us. They should keep believing in the Super Falcons because we are here for the trophy and we are here to qualify for the World Cup. I believe that with hard work and with God on our side, we are going to achieve our twin objectives,” she said. Meanwhile, Chairman of the Nigeria Women Football League, Aisha Falode has hailed the home-based players in the current team for their excellent performances. “I have often said that the league is the engine room of every national team. We have six home-based professionals. I believe there should have been more. “We must re-evaluate our dependence on foreign players and begin to look at the reservoir of players in our domestic league to give us quality representation…” she stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .