 Contraceptives. PHOTO: GOGGLE.COM  The report was released yesterday  by an international global partnership for the rights of women and girls to freely decide whether, when, and how many children they want to have. It revealed that there has been over 1.7 million additional users of modern contraception in Nigeria since 2012, as the Federal Gvernment works to expand family planning services. The report entitled: “FP2020: Catalysing Collaboration” shows that modern methods of contraception have prevented over 2 million unintended pregnancies and 735,000 unsafe abortions between July 2017 and July 2018. According to the finding, despite the huge progress, only 13.8 per cent of women aged 15-49 are using modern contraception in Nigeria, while one-in-four married women aged 15-49 have unmet need for modern contraception. Contraceptive are methods, devices or drugs used among sexually active people for birth control. The report showed Nigeria’s domestic spending on family planning to be worth $8.5 million (2016) as compared to $19 million in Kenya and $8.1 million in Burkina Faso. It urged government increased funding on family planning to tackle the menace of overpopulation that poses a threat to swift growth and national development. Executive Director of Family Planning 2020, Beth Schlachter, noted that women represent half the global population, and there can be no healthy population globally, or in Nigeria without reproductive health care. “As we continue to build the framework for Universal Health Coverage (UHC), we must ensure access to full, free, voluntary contraception is included for all women and girls. As countries build UHC strategies, rights-based family planning and SRHR services must be integrated within primary health care systems,”she said. She explained that rights-based family planning is a catalyst that unlocks the potential of girls and women in Nigeria and around the world. Schlachter added that the goal of the body is to ensure that each one is able to exercise her basic rights to self-determination, health, dignity, and equality. “This is a core strategy for countries to improve the health and well being of their citizens and economy,” she added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .