Mel B has revealed that she attempted suicide in December 2014 in her new book. The X Factor judge, real name Melanie Brown narrates taking 200 tablets of aspirin which she had been keeping for years. She revealed that she maintained a facade of a glamorous life while she “felt emotionally battered.” “I felt ugly and detested by the man who once promised to love and protect me, my husband and manager Stephen,” she explains. “A man who after ten years of marriage now had a library of sex tapes that could — as we both well knew — ruin my career and destroy my family.” But, after taking the last pill, Brown knew that she had made a mistake, reports say. “Suicide was not the answer. I had to make my life count. I had to get to a hospital,” she writes in the memoir, according to The Sun, adding that although her memories from this time are hazy, she remembers “throwing” herself at a jammed door, which left her with visible bruises on her face and shoulder. She writes that those marks that would be visible during an X Factor show she attended three days later. Melanie Brown.Photo: FemaleFirst she reportedly collapsed and went in and out of consciousness, she was taken to the hospital where she lost consciousness. When she gained consciousness, her 19-year-old daughter Phoenix Chi, was “furious,” Mel B reportedly wrote. “Of all the memories from all those hours, it is the one that still floors me,” Brown says, calling it “the saddest moment of my life.” While Brown skipped one X Factor show following her hospitalization, even though her doctors advised against it, she made the decision to attend a Sunday taping the following day, The Sun reported. She was presented with an outfit that would cover the bruises on her arms from where she was medicated through IV drips but she chose to wear a dress she had earlier chosen. “I needed all those bruises to be seen,” she writes, adding that she also made an equally tough choice: to take off her wedding ring, the reports say. Brown and her ex-husband Stephen Belafonte have finalised their divorce with her ex-husband receiving $5,000 (N1.82 million) in child support and monthly spousal support in the sum of $15,000 (N5.5million).