The result of the 2018 West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) for private candidates, second series has been released. The Head of the Nigeria National Office of the WAEC, Mr. Olu Adenipekun, who announced this yesterday at a press briefing in Transcorp Hotels, Calabar, said 112,567 candidates registered in Nigeria out of which 109,902 candidates sat for the examination.He stated that out of the 109,902, “107,749 candidates representing 94.04 percent have their results fully processed and released while 2,153 candidates representing 1.96 percent have a few of their subjects still being processed due to errors traceable to the candidates in the course of registration or writing the examination.” Giving a breakdown of the performance of the candidates, Adenipekun said: “Out of the 109,902 candidates that sat for the examination, 63,037 representing 57.36 percent obtained credit and above in a minimum of any five subjects, that is with or without English language and or Mathematics (while) 39,557 candidates representing 35.99 percent obtained credits and above in a minimum of five subjects including English and Mathematics.” Adenipekun, who was flanked by other top members of the council, advised candidates to check for their results online using the checker PIN and serial number as contained in the candidate’s smart identity card used during the examination and certificates of candidates whose results have been fully processed and released will be ready in 90 days from yesterday. During question and answer session, he said that cases of examination malpractice was very low or insignificant because the number of candidates that sat for the examination was quite lower as compared to the school examinations. “We ensured that WAEC officials were in all the centres, and the issue of collusion and use of mobile phones were nipped in the bud.” On the low percentage of scores for candidates who got five credits and above including English Language and mathematics, he explained: “We cannot say that the percentage is low but we need to draw the attention of the nation to the fact that it is a make up examination” to complement an earlier result. On e-testing, Adenipekun said: “WAEC is doing everything possible to play required roll as far as e-testing is concerned but WAEC is meant to test the performance of candidates as per their learning in school and e-testing in schools. We must have e-learning before we can have e-testing. “If we go ahead to say all our candidates should use e-test, we will not be seen doing what we are supposed to do. We are supposed to do e-testing and not aptitude test so that they can demonstrate effectively what they have learnt.But we are not resting, hence the need for us to draw the attention of the nation to the teaching of e-learning in schools”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .