Legendary singer, Barbra Streisand who was recently a guest on James Corden “Carpool Karoke” has explained how American President Donald Trump inspired her new album, “Walls,” and why she had to call Apple’s Tim Cook about Siri. Barbra Streisand also talked about fame, fear, and Cardi B. In a twist on the usual format, Streisand picked up Corden in her car and it was she who drove through the whole segment. And yet, one of the first things she admitted was that she may not be the world’s best driver. According to her, the last time she went in to renew her driver’s license, “I had to do the written exam,” she told him. “This is a huge mistake.” James Corden and Barbra Streisand | SFGate She also dished that not only did she fail the test three times but she was once so distracted she drove onto the off-ramp of a highway, into oncoming traffic. “If this is how I go out, I’ll take it. It’s a good way to go out,” Corden laughed. “How did he die? Barbra Streisand. At the hands of Barbra Streisand.” The multiple award-winning singer also confirmed that it was Hollywood actress Tiffany Haddish who explained to her who Cardi B was, as Haddish had previously said, but it was James Corden who introduced her to Cardi’s music. He even got her to sing a bit of it along with her. And her reaction to the lyrics was just as priceless! At another point, Corden asked her about “the moment where [she] didn’t perform for 27 years.” “Yeah, a moment,” she laughed. “It’s a long moment.” She further went on to explain that it’s not so much about stage fright as just general nerves for her. “I don’t get nervous, but I don’t enjoy it. I get scared,” she admitted. “I just don’t want to disappoint people.” On if she has self-awareness about her legendary status as the Barbra Streisand. She insisted that she never thinks of herself that way. The politically-motivated artist explained that it was the current state of affairs in the United States that inspired her latest album, “Walls,” before she and Corden belted a powerful rendition of the album’s track, “Don’t Lie to Me.” Watch this sneak preview in the video below: 