 Imo State Governor Rochas Okorocha  Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State has reiterated his resolve to remain in the All Progressives Congress (APC) against “the antics of some forces” in the party. However, he has given his son-in-law, Uche Nwosu, the licence to defect to any political party, if he so wishes, to actualise his governorship ambition. Speaking to newsmen yesterday at Douglas House, Owerri, Okorocha blasted the national leadership of APC led by Adams Oshiomhole over what he deems injustice to members of party in the state. While vowing that no amount of intimidation or blackmail can force him out of the party, he restated his interest in the race for the Orlu senatorial seat under APC. Okorocha further said that a good number of people parading the party’s tickets in the state were imposed on the party. The Imo governor also disassociated President Muhammadu Buhari from his rift with Oshiomhole and APC, adding that his support for the president remains total and unshaken. He also stated that he would not stop any of his loyalists who intends to join another party to pursue their political aspiration in the face of the present situation in the party. His words: “I know that most of you are aware of what is happening in APC, from the removal of Osita Izunaso as the national organising secretary and the coming of Adams Oshiomhole as the national chairman. “However, our party that is known for uprightness and justice, which reflects the image of Buhari, has been dented by the action of Oshiomhole.” He described APC’s choice of Hope Uzodinma as the worst imposition in the country’s political history. Okorocha faulted the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the choice of governorship candidates, also alleging imposition. He stated that Nwosu remains his choice, the party he is contesting under notwithstanding.“What will happen is that while they (loyalists) move to realise their ambition under any other platform, I remain in APC and support them. Such party will have no presidential candidate, but will adopt President Muhammadu Buhari as its candidate,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .