 The worm in the sea – Teachings from the Quran  Giving some tips to gaining taqwa, it stated: “Our minds are filled with multiple things all at once. Consciousness of Allah begins with your thoughts; to filter thoughts will be the first step towards taqwa. Replace unnecessary and negative thoughts with healthy, positive thoughts.Stay Away from Major and Minor Sins: Shamelessness can block your ability to attain taqwa, therefore, stay away from all forms of shamelessness. Be aware of the major and minor sins. If you make a mistake, follow it up with a good deed and make tawba (seek forgiveness). “Perfect your salah (prayer): Once you have cleared your thoughts and stayed away from sins to the best of your ability, you can build greater concentration in salah. For example, perfect your salah by praying on time and reciting different surahs (chapters of the Quran) and understanding their meanings. “Pray sunnah salah and Qiyam-al-layl (night prayer): Salah is your main connection with Allah, increase your connection by praying additional salah. For example, wake up for Qiyam-al-Layl and pray the sunnah salah before fajr. “Reading Quran in Arabic and in a language you understand: Quran is the tool which Allah has given us so that we may attain taqwa. If Arabic isn’t your first language, then read Quran in a language you understand. Understanding the words of Allah will make you more conscious and fearful of Him,” it stated. According to the Quran, benefits of taqwa include: “Guidance: There is guidance for those who are muttaqin (the people of taqwa) as Allah says in Quran: “guidance for those conscious of Allah” (Quran, 2:2). People who have fear of Almighty Allah will seek guidance from the Holy Quran. “Ease of Matters: In the Quran, Allah Almighty says: “And whoever fears Allah, He will make for him ease in his matter.”(Quran, 65:4). Whoever has taqwa, Allah makes matters easy for him in this world as well as the hereafter.This does not necessarily mean that the person will not face difficulty, but through the blessings of his taqwa, he is guaranteed ease and the strength to bear these difficulties without losing faith or hope by Almighty Allah. The reward of facing these difficulties will be given by Allah in the hereafter. “Allah’s love for muttaqun. In the Quran Allah Almighty stated that: “Truly Allah loves the muttaqun “(Quran, 3:76). From this verse, we can conclude that Allah loves those who are pious. Taqwa is the source of gaining Allah’s love and blessings. “It is also a way out of difficulties. Allah says in the Quran about those who are facing problems in a verse that: “And whoever fears Allah, He will make for him a way out.” (Quran, 65:2). People who are facing difficulties but still remain steadfast in their faith for the sake of Allah then He (SWT) will surely make a way for them to get rid of these problems. Taqwa serves as a divine guard against trials of this world as well as the difficulties of the hereafter. “Acceptance of actions: Allah says in Quran about the acceptance of actions or deeds in these words:  “Allah only accepts from the people of taqwa”(Quran, 5:27).“Unexpected sustenance: Almighty Allah is the creator and sustainer of the universe. Whatever a person requires and desires of sustenance can be found in His vast treasures. Allah says in the Quran: “And if the people of the towns believed and had taqwa, certainly we should have opened for them blessings from the heavens and the earth.” (Quran, 7:96).“Salvation from the Fire: Allah says that: “Then We will save the ones who had taqwa”(Quran, 19:72),” it stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .