   However, Zenith Bank when contacted, claims it is unaware of the huge transaction, promising to get back to The Guardian on the matter, but never did as at the time of filing this report But the Managing Director, Highcap Securities, David Adonri, in a telephone interview, dismissed the speculation, noting that quantum of shares alone cannot qualify an individual to become a board member in the bank.He said: “Zenith Securities has its own shares. The firm can buy or sell its own shares, and they have big clients both domestic and foreign investors. Zenith has almost 30 billion shares and if someone buys 288 million shares; it is just a tip of the iceberg.
   
“It is not so significant because for you to be on the board of such a bank, you have to buy up to five per cent which is up to three billion shares, the transaction we are talking about is not up to one per cent. You have to buy up to five per cent threshold before you can request to become a director.”	           
Agreeing, the Founder, Independent Shareholders Association, Sir Sunny Nwosu, explained that the volume of shares held is not a prequalification for board membership of a listed firm, noting that one’s profile and track record are the major considerations for such membership.
   
“It does not require any number of shares to become a board member. The huge transactions may be a configuration of shares, which occur when someone is doing a nominal transfer, and it may be one of the directors that was selling to another and brought the transaction on the floor of the Exchange for formality sake. It may also be that someone is consolidating his portfolio. By law, this kind of transaction cannot qualify someone to be a board member,” he added.  He said: “It has been noted that the stock is selling below its book value, leading the sector as the stock with the highest dividend yield. Zenith Bank is currently trading above its 100-Day Moving Average, and 45 per cent below its 52 week high.“Zenith Bank was undervalued with the highest dividend yield in the banking sector. It is selling below book value so there is no risk investing in the stock, the margin of safety for the stock is very high while the risk is minimal.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .