St. Peter’s Primary School, Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos emerged winners of the 2018 Healthy Champions Football League, defeating Anifowose Primary School, Ikeja 2-1 on penalties. The league, with theme: ‘Score The Healthy Goal, Health Is A Gooo’, courtesy of Helen Keller International (HKI), Nigeria, was organised in partnership with the Lagos State government and funding from Mondelez International Foundation, aimed at bringing attention to the importance of food and nutrition, as well as physical fitness to schools and communities. At the final match held at Opebi Primary School, Allen Avenue, Ikeja, the two schools were unable to get the ball across the goal line, as the match ended goalless. In the third place match, Onilekere Primary School, Onilekere defeated Ogba Primary School to pick the third position. HKI representative, Grace Matu, who noted that the league focuses on one of its thematic areas-physical activity play, said the project is an inclusive activity that encompasses pupils in public schools. She noted that the football league, which started on October 5 involved nine schools. “The objectives of the league include raising awareness of educational and sports organisations and the need for cooperation to develop education through sports and its dimension, bearing in mind the great interest shown by young people in all types of sports. “Taking advantage of the values conveyed by sport to increase knowledge and skills, enabling young people to develop their physical capabilities and inclination to personal effort, as well as social capabilities, such as teamwork, solidarity, tolerance and fair play in a multicultural context,” she said. Education Secretary, Ikeja local government education authority, Mr. Akeem Amosu, who lauded the organisation for not only developing the pupils through the project, appreciated their gesture for the distribution of sporting materials to all the participating schools. He assured of the council’s support for the organisation in all their endeavours to enhance the status of the pupils. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .