 Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike  Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, said that the sitting arrangement of monarchs at the reception organised for the English prince and his wife, Camilla, by the federal government clearly depicted disdain for the people of the Niger Delta. The governor made this assertion when the leader of Christ for All Nations (CfAN) evangelist, Daniel Kolenda, and officials of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) visited him at the Brick House, Port Harcourt, yesterday. Questioning the parameter used to determine the prince’s itinerary, Wike argued that the federal government intentionally restricted the prince’s movement to ensure that he did not experience the neglect of the goose that lays the golden egg.He asserted that the action was a pointer to the negativity that characterised governance under the present administration. “The Prince of Wales came to Nigeria and they took him to Abuja and Lagos. They didn’t want him to see the suffering people of the Niger Delta. It is our money and resources that they used to develop Lagos and Abuja. Yet they did not want the Prince of Wales to see how they have neglected the area that produces the wealth of the nation,” he lamented. The governor assured the church leaders that his administration would continue to partner with the church to ensure peaceful co-existence and general growth.
“This administration derives her sustenance from God. We are grateful that men of God have continued to pray for us. If not for their prayer, this administration would have been shaken. But because of God’s blessing, we have continued to march forward,” said the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governor. The former education minister lauded the leaders of CfAN for organising their crusade in Rivers, “despite the plot by the APC government to de-market oil-producing states.” Evangelist Kolenda said that God’s special power would sweep through the Rivers State capital to bless the people and empower them with the grace of recovery.
According to him, Nigeria occupies a dear place in his heart because it was the first place he preached and was also introduced as the new CfAN leader.Chairman of PFN in Rivers, Apostle Zilly Aggrey, said that God had used the governor to reclaim vast land in front of the NLNG headquarters because he wanted to use it for the salvation of souls in Port Harcourt. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .