PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has asked President Muhammadu Buhari and ruling All Progressives Congress not to contest the outcome of the forthcoming 2019 Presidential election if its candidate, Atiku Abubakar wins. “The party invites all Nigerians and the international community to note this undertaking given by the Director-General of Buhari’s Campaign Organisation and Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, to a delegation from the European Union (EU), ostensibly having seen that the tide is flowing against their candidate,” PDP spokesman Kola Ologbondiyan said on Friday. “The PDP, therefore charges the Buhari Campaign organization and the APC not to, in anyway, engage in any activity that is capable of derailing the electoral process, before, during or after the elections, as such will be firmly resisted by Nigerians,” he added. He alleged that the President and the ruling party have failed Nigerians in every way through their “unending lies, deception, propaganda and interminable penchant for beguilement” and that this will not help the president to emerge victorious in his bid to be re-elected. Ologbondiyan also affirmed that the Buhari-led administration has “gone down in history as irredeemably incompetent, blatantly corrupt, overtly insensitive, incurably vengeful and under which Nigerians are facing the worst form of economic hardship, hunger, starvation, social instability and unabated bloodletting.” He, however, stated that Buhari Campaign Organisation “has seen the handwriting on the wall” that Nigerians across board have reached an irreversible consensus to end his administrations and therefore urged the president and the ruling party to accept the outcome of the forthcoming election. PDP therefore maintained that his candidate, Abubakar, will not be intimidated with no amount of “smear campaigns” before and after the election. Abubakar has been widely accused of being a part of a corruption scandal that prevents him from entering into the United States. While the allegation has been debunked by the Abubakar, there are still speculations that the former vice president could be arrested if he sets foot in America. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .