Umohinyang The Convener, Re-elect Buhari Movement (RBM) Emmanuel Umohinyang speaks on the chances of the incumbent president and standard-bearer of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Gen. Muhammadu Buhari (rtd) and his major opponent, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the coming general election. He also spoke on the allegations by the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) that APC is habouring corrupt politicians, SEYE OLUMIDE reports. Allegations that APC is habouring corrupt elements by CAN
The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) as the umbrella body for all Christians is expected to lead by example in a situation where the unity and peace of the country is under threat. It is not a bad thing if the body raises concern on any issue that affects the common man on the street, but my worry these days is that CAN is not facing reality. Where was CAN during the last administration when billions of dollars
was looted from the country? If not for the coming of President Muhammadu Buhari, Nigerians would not have known the humongous amount of money that was mismanaged under the previous government. To me the organisation only comes out to speak whenever it is convenient and not when it is necessary. I was taken aback when it made that wild allegation that APC is a safe haven for corrupt politicians. I don’t think CAN, with recent developments; still enjoys the support of the people it represents. How the allegation could affect Buhari’s reelection ambition
Not all Christians shared the same view with CAN over that allegation. Our democracy is growing and the country is dynamic. Nigeria is governed by rules and the people are discerning, especially during election periods. If CAN did not speak against corruption during the last administration, I think Nigerians know where to cast their votes in 2019. If the organisation were mute under the last administration where corruption had developed legs and worn clothes and walked around the country, how come it is now talking under a president that has showed zero tolerance for corruption? Atiku’s position on Buhari’s economic policies
I have listened to the comments of Atiku that he would take the risk of allowing inflation in our economy to woo foreign investors. As funny as Atiku’s economic magic may look, I think he is trying to take Nigeria back to Zimbabwe of the recent past, where a loaf of bread was sold for 10, 000 Zimbabwean dollars. Atiku should know that such an economy seriously affects the poor. From what he is proposing, it shows he is only concerned about the elite.  He wants to take us back to where the miracle of survival was only in the hands of a few. Buhari’s government has come in to break the walls between the rich and the poor, but what Atiku is proposing is to take us back to the era where we eat the crumbs from the master’s table, and the people will not allow that in 2019. I also heard him say he is going to allow Niger Delta take control of their resources. He cannot deceive Nigerians with these vague promises because it was under the watchful eyes of Atiku that the people of the South South took the issue up to the level of the Supreme Court to fight for 13 per cent derivation. He also talked about disobedience of court orders. When he was vice president the allocation of Lagos State was withheld for months even after the Supreme Court judgment ordered them to release pay the allocation. I don’t think he is morally qualified to talk about disobedience of court orders because he was an active player in a government that relied more on the rule of the thumb. I think he is only showing desperation as a man desperate to come into power not for the benefit of the people but for himself. Southeast zone endorsement of Atiku
If endorsement wins election, former President Goodluck Jonathan would have won in 2015 because during that era, we saw how huge amount of money was used to acquire endorsements. The Enugu declaration is not unexpected. We are going to see more of it in the coming days, especially with the kick-off of campaigns. That endorsement will count for nothing because under this administration, the government has done so much for the people of the Southeast. The people will not allow themselves to be used again by the so-called leaders. Development-wise, this government has done more for the people of the Southeast compared to the 16 years of PDP.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .