Kabiru Dogo The Executive Director of the Ondo State Football Agency (ODSFA), Mr. Tunde Ogunja has expressed disappointment over the recent appointments in the agency, especially the engagement of Kabiru Dogo as the team’s technical director. Ogunja faulted the action of the chairman of the agency, Tajudeen Akinyemi, which was approved by the Commissioner for Sports, Saka Yusuf-Ogunleye, at the official introduction of Dogo. He alleged that he was not carried along in the ‘wrong’ appointments carried out by the chairman and the commissioner, arguing that what Sunshine Stars needed after escaping relegation last season, was experienced and capable hands, not the appointment of washerman as a figurehead Technical Director in a team managed by him. “Look, Dogo has been unveiled, those other individuals appointed I cannot work with them… how do you expect a washerman to be a technical director of a team? Is it proper? There is a standard in LMC. “Before you can become a team manager or a coach, you need to have a CAF B licence, it’s a requirement by the LMC. Last season we had Henry Abiodun as the Technical Director, he is a CAF license A coach. “Dogo has CAF B, he is qualified. That is the standard by the LMC, you cannot stay on the bench without a CAF B licence, that’s the minimum. So bringing in people who are mediocre, who are indolent and unintelligent, this is not a kindergarten team, Sunshine Stars is a big team in Africa.” Ogunja lamented that the commissioner and the chairman single-handedly restructured the team without informing him as the Executive Director. He said he had ordered the technical crew to give him a list of 20 players out of the old stock to be retained as part of preparation for the new season but the commissioner pronounced the team disbanded. “The commissioner and the chairman are making a mockery of the system. I am a football technocrat, a professional to the core. I know what it takes to have a football team and I know how it takes to have a football team,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .