According to a report by Hollywood Life, international pop star and her billionaire boyfriend, Hassan Jameel has parted ways. It is gathered that the 30-year-old nine times Grammy award-winning songstress and the Saudi billionaire decided to call things off because their romance fizzled out. Further fueling the speculation is the fact that Rihanna hasn’t been spotted with Jameel since July. A source close to the Anti hitmaker reveals to Hollywood Life that, “Rihanna is totally single again. Things kinda fizzled between her and Hassan a while ago. Their lives were really busy and it was hard for her because she often didn’t feel like a priority to him.” Hassan presides as the deputy president and vice chairman of Abdul Latif Jameel, a family-owned operation that runs its diversified businesses (transportation, engineering, etc.) in 30 countries. It was once even deemed the “world’s largest independent distributor of Toyota and Lexus vehicles” in 2017 by Forbes Middle East! Rihanna herself has a busy career being one of the most successful singers in the world as well as her Fenty Beauty line has been keeping her busy. The source further continues that, “While she would never go back to Chris Brown or Drake at this point in her life, she is not ruling out working things out with Hassan.” “She has been using the excuse that she and Hassan have bad timing so maybe one day, when they are less busy, things could work out between them,” our source goes on. And here’s why she’s clinging on to that “excuse. They had amazing chemistry together, she was really attracted to him and she does miss him. In the meantime, Rihanna loves being single but it is weird for her cause she also loves having a boyfriend,” the source adds. “She has been fighting off feeling lonely lately and is ready for someone new, a hero to come rescue her.” It would be recalled that Rihanna split from Brown in 2013 and went on to briefly date Drake in 2016. Reports that she was dating Jameel started when he was photographed kissing her in June of 2017.