 Chief Executive Officer, Outsource Global, Amal Hassan  Hassan, a leading Nigerian technopreneur, who is passionate about fostering economic development through growth-enabled career path for knowledgeable youths, recently discussed with world leaders on ‘How to deliver a new approach that raises ambition and meets the scale and complexity of the challenge’. She shared practical knowledge and innovative ways of solving the unemployment challenges in Africa. According to her, she had interacted with international actors such as Antonio Guterres (Secretary-General of the United Nations (UN), Amina J. Mohammed (Deputy Secretary-General of the UN), Theresa May (Prime Minister of the United Kingdom), Bill Gates (co-chair of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation), Kristalina Georgieva (CEO of the World Bank), among many others. “Job creation for youths is a major problem in most developing countries. Between now and 2035, Africans will have to create 18 million new jobs every year to keep pace with the rapidly growing population. The reason is not far-fetched from the fact that, the problem of unemployment is more complex in Africa than other parts of the world” she said. As a promoter of youth empowerment, she said she has been able to create employment opportunities for over 700 youths, and women in particular across major cities in Nigeria, adding:  “ We are partnering with global investors and leaders to increase access to economic opportunities, create lasting jobs that will reduce the rate of unemployed youths in Nigeria, and bring about sustainable development growth across Africa.” Her interaction with world leaders through international actors such as: Antonio Guterres  (Secretary-General of the UN), Amina J. Mohammed (Deputy Secretary-General of the UN), Theresa May (Prime Minister of the United Kingdom), Paul Kagame (President of the Republic of Rwanda), Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo (President of Ghana), Uhuru Kenyatta (President of the Republic of Kenya), Bill Gates (co-chair of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation), Kristalina Georgieva (CEO of the World Bank), among many others. With this in view, African youths are beginning to create better job opportunities for themselves and their community at large. They are now taking a bold stand in their various countries, solving problems that exist as a challenge to the world economy. They are raising their voices to influence new market strategies, foster economic development, and policy change in the world. They are expanding their network and services to create productive growth and investment opportunities across Africa. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .