 Senior special Adviser to the President on Media and publicity Femi Adesina (left);  wife of the General Superintendent of the Deeper Christian Life Ministry ((DLCM), Mrs. Esther Kumuyi (left); Pastor William Folorunso Kumuyi; Former Head of State Gen. YAKUBU GOWON; his wife Victoria; wife of former Cross River state Governor Donald Duke and husband Duke shortly after the Nigeria Prays Service held at the Gbagada headquarters of the Deeper Life Bible Church in Lagos… on Sunday<br />Photo: News Editor, Marcel Mbamalu  The president who was represented
by Femi Adesina, the presidential spokesperson, disclosed this at the special prayer summit, Nigeria Prays, convened by former Head of state, Yakubu Gowon. The summit held at the Deeper Life Bible Church Headquarters, Gbagada, Lagos, was organised to draw up sufficient prayers and heart-cry for the nation currently undergoing testy times and set to hold elections in three months. Buhari said Nigeria, like any other country, has socio-political, economic and security challenges which are surmountable. He stressed that the unity of the country is important as the God that brought us together “cannot make a mistake”. This is coming a week after the Boko Haram insurgents overran a Nigerian Army battalion to kill scores of soldiers in Metele, Borno state. More than 27,000 people have been killed since 2009 and some 1.8 million left homeless, while aid agencies are battling the humanitarian fall-out of the insurgency. The General Superintendent, Deeper Christian Life Ministry, Pastor W. F. Kumuyi, speaking at the prayer summit, quoted 2 Chronicles 7:12-13 of the Bible as he called for continued prayers for the country and its citizens over the security challenges. Special prayer sessions for forgiveness, security, peace and economic recovery were led by the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Okechukwu Enelama, who also represented Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. Also present at the event was the former head of state, Yakubu Gowon, secretary to the Ogun State governor, Taiwo Adeoluwa, who represented Govenor Ibikunle Amosun, Chief Judge of Anambra State Peter Umeadi, and former Nigerian Ambassador to United Kingdom Christopher Kolade among other dignitaries. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .