Teni The city of Lagos recently pulsed with pure energy for ART X Live!, the dynamic visual art and live music show by ART X Lagos. Titled ART X Live! Sonic Archive They knew before the new, the show explored Africa’s rich musical history with performing artists Ghanaian singer Amaarae, BOJ and Teni the entertainer, paying homage to some of their favourite songs by African Legends. The invitation only show saw over 500 guests treated to these amazing unique live sets by the performing artistes accompanied by visuals from artists Chukwuka Nwobi, Tomisin Akins and Fadekemi Ogunsanya. Ghanaian singer Amaarae charmed guests with her silky smooth vocals and her eclectic rendition of VIP’s “Ahomka Womu”. Familiar Nigerian singer BOJ performed some of his old classics to the delight of the crowd and Teni the entertainer emphatically closed the show with a set that included songs by Essien Igbokwe, a re-make of her hit single “Askamaya” and literally took the crowd to church performing ‘Follow the Ladder’ by Agnes Iro. The show was beautifully curated by Lanre Masha and Odunsi the engine as Creative Director. Aye of VSS took over after the live performances and had the crowd on their feet dancing way past 5am. Art X Live performance Tokini Peterside, founder of ART X Lagos commented, “ART X Live! is where music meets ART X Lagos. This is something you don’t find in art fairs around the world, it shows that we are unique and different.” She added: “This year’s show was an adventure, it was a show where the musicians reached into the innermost parts of their imagination. It was not just a regular show nor a regular concert.” In a chat with Odunsi ‘The Enigma, who is also the Creative Director/Producer for the project said, “I feel great! It’s a great opportunity for me to display what I do apart from being a studio artist and it’s a platform for me to show what is in my mind and executes it.” For the curator for the project, Lanre Masha, “I’m super excited about this year’s show especially because of Odunsi being a creative engine. I love his energy, his talent, what he has been able to accomplish at such a young age musically, and his music growth, where he is today, it’s a really dope project. I’m a huge fan of him, Teni, BOJ and Amaarae.” ART X Live! 2018 was an exhilarating show which saw the Civic Centre car-park transformed into a one night only concert space. The audiovisual artistry of the night captivated the audience’s energy, creating a unique and exhilarating experience. ART X Live! 2018 was proudly sponsored by Absolut and Budweiser, the Beat 99.9 FM, and Trace TV.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .