Lagos advises citizens on regular exercise
The College of Nigerian Pathology (CNP) has charged the government to create an enabling environment for pathologists in Nigeria to keep them in the country. At a public lecture in commemoration of the 2018 World Pathology Day at Lagos State University College of Medicine (LASUCOM) Auditorium, chairperson of Lagos CNP, Prof. Fatimah Abdulkareem, said: “Statistics showed that 50 per cent of students trained by National Post-Graduate Medical College move out of the country as soon as they are qualified.” Abdulkareem added the aim of commemorating the day was to educate the public on the role and importance of pathology and the accomplishment of the profession. She assured that the institution as a professional body would continue to safeguard the standard of the profession, quality service to patients, providing guidance in matters related to the practice of pathology in the country and regularly equip fellows with the ability to meet the challenges of evolving advancement in techniques and increasing expectation of the community. Also, the Adviser for Federal College of Pathology Nigeria, Prof. John Obafunwa, who stated that the role of pathologists in the diagnosis and treatment of disease was growing phenomenally, berated government for not playing a vital role to address the challenges encountered by the profession. He, therefore, urged the government to give appropriate training to incoming pathologists and provide well-equipped laboratories. Meanwhile, the Lagos State Commissioner for Home Affairs, Dr. AbdulHakeem AbdulLateef, has advised Lagosians to imbibe the culture of exercise so as to live healthy lives.AbdulLateef, who stated this during the Walk for Life and Peace organised by Human Concern Foundation International (HCFI) in Lagos yesterday, urged Lagosians to change their lifestyle by taking a minimum of 10,000 steps everyday.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .