Fashion is an ever vibrant phenomenon has its changes with time has what used to be fashionable in the 90’s is no longer in vogue in the 20th century. Fashion is often related to trends about clothing, footwear, hair, makeup and accessories at the particular period. Trends in fashion in itself does not exist in isolation has it’s influenced by various factors like music, celebrities, weather, era, influencers, music or the political environment. There has been n away while on the flip side some fashion styles have left us laughing. Below are various funny fashion styles that are quite hilarious: Image credit: Five minutes history Crinoline is a stiffened petticoat worn by women to make their skirt standout. In order to achieve the perfect skirt, crinoline is often worn under six petticoats which are bulky and quite uncomfortable to wear. Crinoline was popularly worn under ballroom gowns, wedding gowns or skirts. The crinoline is was made from horsehair, wood, or steel. The crinoline gives the wearer the appearance of bigger hips.  Image credit: Tudors Dynasty Black teeth became quite a fashion trend because of Queen Elizabeth I. The Queen had a soft spot for sweets which resulted in tooth decay. The state of Queen Elizabeth’s blackened teeth soon became a symbol of status amongst members of the nobility, has only the wealthy had access to sweets and sugar at that period.  Image credit: Velvet limelight Macaronis became quite popular amongst aristocratic Englishmen who wore bright colours, tall wigs, and very tight clothing.  Image credit: Wright Hobble skirts are extremely tight ankle-length skirts popularly worn by women during the height of 90’s. The humour to this fashion style is that women could not move properly because of the restriction of the hobble skirt.  Image credit: Pinterest Shoulder pads have been a regular part of the fashion world but in retrospect, the exaggerated shoulder pads are sure to crack you up with laughter. There will always be a fashion style to give us a good laugh and a fashion style that will inspire you to up your own game. Falling in love with fashion is definitely a fresh of breath air.