Governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose The Elders caucus of Ekiti State chapter of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has upheld former Governor Ayodele Fayose’s position as the leader of the party in the state. They also declared support for the embattled Gboyega Oguntuase-led State Executive Committee in the state. The elders dissociated themselves from the purported stakeholders meeting, which had earlier declared the Senate Minority Whip, Senator Biodun Olujimi, as the party leader. The elders called on PDP members to apply caution to avoid the fragmentation of the party in the state. Rising from a meeting held in Ijesa-Isu, Ekiti, the elders expressed concern about the various factional meetings held by members, saying it does not augur well for the party’s cohesion. Present at the meeting were a former deputy governor and chairman of the caucus, Paul Alabi; former PDP state chairmen, Chief J. Ademuagun, Chief Bola Oluojo and Chief Idowu Faleye; Chief Idowu Odeyemi, Mrs. C. O. Adesoro and incumbent PDP chairman, Gboyega Oguntuase. In the communiqué signed by Alabi (chairman) and Olu-Ojo (Secretary), the elders urged members of the party to bury their differences and work for the victory of the PDP in the presidential election. “The caucus noted with concern the division in the State House of Assembly and decided to wade in immediately, to bring about unity among the PDP assembly members. “The primary objective is how to galvanize all our members to work hard for the party’s presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, to win the 2019 Presidential Election and for our members to win their various elections,” the communiqué read, just as the elders urged party returnees to participate positively and effectively in all party activities, especially at the ward levels. The caucus enjoined all party members to work together, eschew violence and remain faithful to the party, assuring that the party would bounce back at the federal and state levels.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .