 [FILE PHOTO] Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta. PHOTO: YouTube  Funlola Akiode, Director, Licensing and Authorisation, NCC, said during the Annual Stakeholders’ Consultative Forum on Selected Licence Categories in Lagos, that such act was a breach of operators’ obligation. Represented by Chukwuma Azikiwe, Head, Post Licensing Unit, NCC, Akiode said that non-compliance to terms, conditions and obligations was of concern to the commission. He said: “With respect to compliance with Licence terms, conditions and obligations, our recent audit checks revealed that some licensees were not in compliance with obligations such as payment of Annual Operating Levy. “Some operators are not in compliance with approved Individual Consumer Code of Practice, Type Approval of equipment, submission of statistical data and information on their change of address. “Another important concern is in the area of licence renewal. We also observed the issue of delay in licence renewal by licensees whose licences have expired or about to expire. “They erroneously relied on the aspect of the licence document which states that their licence would be automatically renewed. “I wish to reiterate that renewal of expired licence is not automatic but subject to fulfilment of obligations.” According to her, renewal of licence is subject to being up to date in payment of AOL, development and publication of approved ICCP. Akiode said that licence renewal was subjected to updated type approval of telecommunications equipment, payment of spectrum and numbering where applicable, among others. She urged licensees to take advantage of the forum to sought clarifications on any issue regarding their licence obligations and renewal processes and procedures. Akiode said that the regulatory body had been recently inundated with complaints by subscribers on issues such as the non-compliance with directions on data roll-over and automatic renewal of data service. She said that there were complaints on discrepancies in the advertised data speed and actual speed experienced by consumers after subscribing to a service. She said: “The commission is fully aware and committed to discharging its mandate, especially in facilitating a conducive telecommunication environment and guiding the industry to sustain the achievement already recorded in the industry. “It can only achieve this with the cooperation and support of the licensees, with respect to compliance with extant laws and subsidiary legislations.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .