 [FILE PHOTO] Chairman of NCC board, Senator Olabiyi Durojaiye  This initiative of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) is to enhance Nigeria’s participation in the global digital revolution. NCC has appointed a seven-man panel of experts chaired by the former executive vice chairman (EVC), Dr. Ernest Ndukwe, to look critically at issues relating to ICT research. The panel submitted its final report to the NCC board and management at the weekend. Chairman of NCC board, Senator Olabiyi Durojaiye, who received the report in the presence of the EVC, Prof. Umar Danbatta; Executive Commissioner (Stakeholder Management), Sunday Dare; and other members of the executive management, said that the initiative was to invite eminent Nigerians with “deep knowledge, expertise and experience in ICT to serve on the panel of experts and in their capacity to advise the NCC on ICT discovery, innovations, technology through the instrumentality of research and capacity building.” Premised on the commitment of NCC to establish ICT education in Nigeria, Durojaiye said: “The board deeply considered setting up a merit-based process for objective selection of young Nigerians resident in the country and in the diaspora for special training and capacity building to enhance Nigeria’s participation in the ongoing global digital revolution.” Other members of the panel include: chairman, Digital Bridge Institute (DBI), Titi Omo-Ettu; administrator at DBI, Dr. Ike Adinde; Prof. Mohammed Ajiya, Abdullahi Maikano, Johnson Asinugo and Shehu Olaniya. Durojaiye said: “It is pertinent to note that the Digital Bridge Institute (DBI), an innovation of the commission, already has ample basic facilities to house ICT research centres in Lagos and Abuja to start with. “The commission is desirous of refocusing the DBI to actualise its mandate in accordance with the ideals of its founding fathers. This includes the need to identify the numerous ‘Bill Gates and ‘Mark Zukerbergs’ of Nigeria, who are currently roaming the streets of Lagos, Kano, Enugu, Port Harcourt and indeed across every other city in search of salaried jobs.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .