 Member, Board of Trustees (BoT), Olashore International School (OIS), Osun State, Taiwo Olashore (left); CEO/Principal of the school, Mr. Derek Smith; Chairman BoT, Abimbola Olashore; and another BoT member, Kehinde Olashore, at the unveiling of the OIS 25th anniversary logo in Lagos.  Olashore who made the call the at the unveiling of the school’s 25th anniversary logo in Lagos, where activities lined up for the celebration was also disclosed, said the present status of the country as having the highest number of out-of –school children is an indication that something has gone wrong with its education system, investment in the sector as well as approach to issues affecting the sector. He said though the school is doing the much it could through scholarships and community projects to tackle some of the societal challenges, failure by the public sector to address the issues may affect the wellbeing of the nation in the nearest future. He said, “Our dear country got two accolades this year, the world poverty capital and the country with the highest number of out –of- school children. It shows that something has gone totally wrong with our education system and the investment in the sector. There is an urgent need for regular increase in educational budget. Budgeting for more schools, teacher capacity training, infrastructural expansion and upgrade, robust curriculum and contents, among numerous others. Though, the private sector is addressing some of these issues, but nothing beats public sector intervention to tackling these issues. We should keep increasing our allocation to the sector, if not this is a ticking time bomb waiting to explode.” He stated that OIS was borne out of necessity to give children the best education, and he is glad that academic excellence and all-round success beyond the classroom has been the school’s story for the past 25 years. Recounting some of the global feats of its alumni over the years, Olashore said, “Our alumni testimonies are huge. Two of our alumni were recognised by Forbes in its under 30 list of young men and women who will have a significant impact on the continent. Chief Executive Officer and Principal of the school, Mr. Derek Smith said developing future leaders is one of the founder’s vision and the school is committed to achieving that. “One key focus for us as a school is that our students can go anywhere around the world and succeed. What we are doing is not just passing exams but all round success. For instance, amongst lots of our alumni that are doing well are Mr Obinna Okwodu who won the award of the most promising entrepreneur by Forbes, Mr Bode Olanipekun who is Nigerian’s youngest Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Folarin Falana also known as Falz is recording great impact in the entertainment industry, amongst others. Our pioneer head girl, Mrs Kikelomo Banjo, has gone on to become the first female Operations Manager for Maersk Line in Nigeria. We pride ourselves in all round success, beyond the classroom. “For this consistent top level academic performance by Olashore graduates, I was pleased to receive the 2018 Africa Outstanding School CEO Award. We set international standards. We are proud that we have been achieving success for the past 25 years,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .