 Human rights lawyer, Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa  The Lagos lawyer stated this, in his letter of acceptance to his appointment as the chairman of the Justice Sector Programme Commission of the AFBA. AFBA in a letter dated October 26, signed by its president Hannibal Uwaifo and Secretary General, Flavania Charles had notified him of the appointed. The appointment letter reads: “On behalf of the executive council of the AFBA, I respectfully write to inform you of your appointment as chairman of the Justice Sector Program Commission of the Association. “This development was in response to your nomination and recommendation by the qualifications committee, which found you eminently fit to hold this highly exalted position.” The Justice Sector Commission is a new committee of AFBA and is aimed at tackling issues relating to the Justice system in Africa and fashioning a blueprint model for Africa’s continental justice system that can stand the scrutiny of the best international standard. According to the Association, the commission has powers to advise AFBA and react on her behalf publicly on burning issues. “The duties of the commission includes but is not limited to preparing agendas, resource persons for AFBA conferences, workshops, meetings, etc” the group said, adding that the commission is also expected to seek sponsorships for its activities and programmes as may be specified by the executive council from time to time. In his letter of acceptance, Adegboruwa said he wholeheartedly accept the appointment. His words: “I am glad to be considered worthy to be part of the transformation of our continental justice system and I look forward to a robust engagement in relation thereto. “I will love to be integrated into the working system of the AFBA as may be incidental and relevant to this assignment. I will also be glad to meet with the executive council to discuss and agree upon modalities for the actualization of the mandate of the justice sector programme commission. “I have no doubt that with your progressive leadership, the continent of Africa will witness a robust improvement in justice administration. While thanking you immensely for this opportunity, please accept the best assurances of my warmest regards, always.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .