Power couple, Banky W and Adesua Etomi are celebrating their first traditional wedding anniversary today, November 19. The lovebirds took to social media to gush about their love for each other and reminisce on their love journey. Banky W in a post shared on his Instagram page said the best decision he has made so far in his adult life was waiting to find the right person as a wife. He also used the opportunity to advise fans not to give in to the pressure of getting married according to someone else’s timetable. Read his post below:   By far the best decision I have made in my adult life, was to wait until I found my wife. People will pressure you and try to make you feel inadequate or incomplete.. all because you're not living according to their own mental timetable. Ignore them. Focus on your journey, your happiness, and on making yourself a better person. My prayer is that you will discover, like I did, that the right person is worth waiting for.  Mrs W… I'm still amazed that I get to call you mine. Thank you for loving me. Thank you for building with me. Thank you for believing in me and for inspiring me to be a better man. My purpose partner, my rock, my destiny, my Shug, my wife, my life… Happy tradiversary Skuu. Love you SCATTER.  #BAAD2017 #BAAD2018 A post shared by  Banky W. (@bankywellington) on Nov 18, 2018 at 10:12pm PST  On her part, the award-winning actress reflected on the challenges faced together and how God has brought them through it all. She then professed her undying love for him while referring to him with endearments. Read her post below:   On this day, the quiet moments were the best. Moments when I felt like it was just you and I. I thought back on the tough months we had before this day (surgery And healing) and how God brought us through. He's still keeping us and he has given us the most beautiful life. A year ago, I was sure that I loved you as much as I thought was humanly possible. A year later and I realise that I was so wrong. I love you so much more. Thank you for stretching my heart muscles and being such an amazing human being and husband. My husband. Still in awe of the man that you are. There's nothing more amazing than waking up and seeing you right next to me. I love you more than I can put into words. My purpose partner, my guy, my lover (slurp), my bubba.  You were worth the wait. LOVE YOU PIECES. Happy tradiversary honey @bankywellington  #BAADFOREVER A post shared by  Adesua Etomi-Wellington (@adesuaetomi) on Nov 18, 2018 at 11:35pm PST  It would be recalled that Adesua recently supported her husband when he declared for political office.