The Federation of African Medical Students’ Associations General Assembly (FAMSA GA) will be celebrating its 50th anniversary in grand style by hosting the first ever health conference of its kind at the University of Ibadan, Nigeria from 18th -24th November 2018. The General Assembly serves as the annual meeting of African Medical students under the umbrella of the Federation of African Medical Students’ Associations, an association with the vision of improving the health of the African people. In line with their vision, the weeklong conference is themed, Repositioning Healthcare In Africa For Sustainable Development. Healthcare is central to the overall development of a region, hence the need for the aforementioned. Of the 17 interwoven global Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), SDG 3 is specific to health. The FAMSA General Assembly is a proposed solution that will bring together young vibrant minds as well as professionals and relevant stakeholders in both the public and private sectors from across  Africa  and beyond  to  discuss  ideas  and  initiate  steps  towards the goal. This strategic event will involve key-stakeholders in the healthcare industry in Africa and  the  world,  to  interact  with  healthcare  students  and  youths  to reflect,  debate,  discuss  and  proffer  novel recommendations towards a healthier  future. The conference will feature keynote addresses, plenary sessions, workshops, trainings, hackathon sessions, and scientific presentations on carefully selected subthemes all related and contributory to the goal. In tackling the overall theme, some of the sub-themes to be discussed are Mental illness; Breaking the silence, Infectious diseases in Africa; Are we really winning, Maternal and child health in Africa; The wages of disconnect, Medical education in Africa; Curriculum, research inclusion and mentorship, Health policy and financing; Saving the future of Africa, The African Medical Student and the SDGs: Where do we come in? Some of the seasoned speakers confirmed include Dr. Moeti (WHO Regional Director), Dr. Tedros (WHO Director General), Dr. Paulin Basinga (Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Country Director), Dr. Mohammed Ali Pate (Former Nigeria Minister of State for Health & CEO, Big Win Philanthropy), Dr. Adanna Chukwuma (Health Economist, World Bank), Dr. Orekunrin Ola (Founder, The Flying Doctors Nigeria). With an expected attendance of about 1,500 delegates including Medical students,  Healthcare professionals (HCPs), Policymakers, Researchers, Academicians, Industry experts from across the globe this conference promises to be effective in stirring a change in the African healthcare sector. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .