• Don’t underrate South Africa, Shorunmu warns Eagles Super Eagles Manager, Gernot Rohr is expected to arrive in Asaba alongside some of his players to prepare for this weekend’s African Nations Cup qualifier against South Africa in Johannesburg, the team’s Media Officer, Toyin Ibitoye has revealed. Ibitoye told The Guardian yesterday that the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has prepared the logistics for the arrival of players in the Delta State capital, adding that proper training will begin at the Stephen Keshi Stadium tomorrow.He said, “The players and officials will use Monday to settle down before proper training starts on Tuesday. We have less than five days to train in Asaba because the team will depart for South Africa by Thursday or Friday through a chartered flight.” Ibitoye said apart from the players out through injury, none of the invited players for the game is injured, adding that the team doctors would examine the players today to ascertain their level of fitness. Meanwhile, former Super Eagles goalkeeper, Ike Shorumu has warned the team to guide against complacency, saying underestimating South Africa could be dangerous to Nigeria’s African Nations Cup hope.Pointing at the first leg result in which the Bafana Bafana defeated the Super Eagles 2-0 in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, Shorunmu said the Nigerian side must be tactically disciplined to win this weekend’s match, noting that the South Africans, who are still not in a confortable position to qualify for the Nations Cup, would come out in full force to earn the three points at home. “The Eagles will face a tough battle in South Africa, and so they should adopt the same approach the South Africans used in the first leg; that is by playing without any fear or intimidation if they hoped to win the game. “All the invited players are exposed and experienced, they have the capacity to fill any vacuum in the team. On the goalkeeping position, the Eagles’ coaches should focus pick the best available one for the game. They know the players and their different qualities.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .