Movie lovers, filmmakers and media men on Friday, November 16, converged on the Palms Mall, Lekki, Lagos, for the premiere of Mike Ezuruonye’s new movie, titled, Lagos Real Fake Life. With the premiere, the star-studded movie, which centres on the false lives many city dwellers lead while trying to make a living would be taken round cinemas across the country. With two dudes, Mike Ezuruonye (Chidi) and Nonso Diobi (Emeka), leeching off the wealth and kindness of young and beautiful ladies, the movie reveals that deception in Lagos cuts across ethnic groups and gender. Speaking about the movie, Ezuruonye disclosed that the story emanates from him, adding that he experienced it twice in Lagos and has to tell it to save people, especially the youth, from becoming victims, and also to discourage those already toiling that line to desist from it. “Many people are living false lives in big cities like Lagos, Accra, Freetown among others. And this is having a negative effect on our youths who would always put to practice what they hear and see around them. One can find false life on the social media, our neighbourhoods, parties and even at hangouts; it is everywhere,” he said. Ezuruonye noted that he wants to use the movie to address this situation, expose its negative effect on the youth and the society, while warning those still engaged in such self-destructive lifestyle to stop it because it is not helping anyone. “People must understand that living a false lifestyle is expensive and destructive; it makes one to live in constant fear of being exposed. It is cheaper to live one’s real life, as it would make you not live in fears or go a borrowing to satisfy anyone,” the Ezuruonye said. The filmmaker disclosed that part of the things the movie aims at, is to expose the mistakes most youths have made and are still making in the name of wanting to lead a good life. He stressed that the movie will make them to be critical of things; think deep, knowing that ‘fake grass is greener than the real ones. On what he expects from the movie, the actor noted that after showing in cinemas across the country, he would tour the West African sub-region, before going to the Americas and Europe. According to him, ‘Lagos Real Fake Life’ is going to be the first Nigerian movie to win an Oscar and put Nollywood on the global map. “I look towards winning an Oscar with Lagos Real Fake Life, because of the good quality pictures, characterization, the storyline and others. The message is universal; it cuts across cities and climes. Though, I used Lagos as a peg; it, however, does not mean the issues raised are only found in Lagos; they are found in every city across the globe,” he said. Directed by Ezuruonye, the movie has array of stars, including, Mercy Aigbe, Odunlade Adebola, Mong Kalu, Annie Idibia, I.k Ogbonna, and Nedu Wazobia. Others are, Hadiza Gabon, Rex Nosa, Uzee Usman, Emmanuella, Mr Jollof, Haillie Sumney Nikky Ufondu and Josh2Funny. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .