Natural oils can be extremely beneficial to our skin although some oils may irritate your skin. However, before applying the oil to your entire body do a patch test on the inside of your elbow before using any oil or you can dilute the oil with other beauty products. The truth is that all natural oil have different results on people’s skin that is why what may work for one person’s skin may not work for the other person’s skin type. You have to find which oil can fit into your beauty regime. Before applying any type of natural oil to the skin, it is advisable to receive a recommendation from your beautician or dermatologist. Below are natural oils for skin: Olive oil contains vitamins A, D, E, and K which provides nutrients for the skin. Olive oil is a good option for an all-body application. Olive oil helps to give your skin a good glow.  Coconut oil is easily absorbed into the skin and it contains vitamins E and K and antibacterial properties. On the flip side, coconut oil may cause breakouts on the face. Coconut oil is a great option for the skin, although it is not advisable to apply it on the face especially when you have an oily skin type.  Shea butter is also known as ori which is derived from African shea tree. Shea butter is sometimes used as a hair product and moisturizer.  Jojoba oil is derived from its seeds which is common to Mexico and Native American tribes. There are rare cases of allergic reactions to jojoba oil but it is advisable to do the patch test on your elbow before you begin to apply it to your entire body.  Sunflower seed oil contains vitamin E and absorbs easily into the skin. Sunflower seed oil is a good natural moisturizer has it is absorbed easily into the skin. This helps to prevent dryness of the skin.  Almond oil contains nutrients like vitamin E, proteins, zinc and potassium. This oil generally as a lighter texture which makes it a good option to apply on the face. If you are prone to skin allergies make sure you dilute this oil before use.  Grapeseed oil has antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. This oil contains vitamin E and l fatty acids. Grapeseed oil has light texture so it can be applied to the face. Although, grapeseed oil is less common it is a great natural oil to consider for skin care. Adding the right oil into your skin regime will make your skin definitely pop.