 former President Nigeria Stock Exchange, Mr. Goodie Ibru  Ibru posited that a nation like Nigeria must create the environment for businesses and entrepreneurs to thrive, stressing that it is a key strategy we must use to fight poverty, create wealth and grow the economy. He said, “Entrepreneurship is very often building something, sometimes empires out of nothing. We hope in this regard the recent remarkable achievements in the ‘World Bank Ease of Doing Business’ will be sustained, aligned with the required market-based economic reform, going forward. We also cannot over-emphasise the important role of academic leadership in designing innovative entrepreneurial education to produce the business leaders and entrepreneurs to help realise the economic dreams of our great nation. In his lecture, the guest speaker, Prof Toyin Falola who was also honoured with a doctorate degree, noted that for any private school to excel and surpass their public counterparts in local and international relevance, it must take cognisance of academic freedom and independence; lasting relations with students; direct engagement with society through programs and increased social relevance; and networking with industry practitioners. Speaking on the topic, “Private universities and the public good, the eminent scholar pointed out that if private universities refuse to shrink their agenda and avoid micromanaging the process of knowledge generation, they will distinguish themselves in years to come. They need to maintain an intellectually stimulating society where teachers can engage in contrarian research and where they enjoy the freedom to reject traditionalism and discuss unpleasant subjects in the classroom He said, “Private universities also need to increase their social relevance. They should engage society directly, introducing courses and programmes that speak to ongoing national issues and by participating in those issues directly. Today, Nigeria is confronted with issues of corruption, leadership, governance, economic growth, societal and overall developmental issues. He also urged the graduating students to maximise the power of knowledge economy.  “You can convert your knowledge to power and wealth. You must also use your brain and come back to give to your alma mater The vice chancellor, Prof Ayandiji Aina, who was honored with ‘Exemplary Leadership Award’, said their students are performing excellently in Nigeria and outside the country. Aina disclosed that the newly approved undergraduate programme by the National Universities Commission (NUC) namely Cyber Security, Information Systems, Guidance and Counselling as well as Christian Religious Studies would go a long way in impacting not only the students but the society at large. The valedictorian, Anthonia Crystabel from the Department of Computer Science expressed appreciation to her lecturers for the knowledge while highlighting the principles of success to include discipline, determination, right environment, identifying the need for growth, and good networking among others.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .