Get in here dancers! Diddi Imah the solo Nigerian-American dancer from Beyonce’s historic Coachella performance and renowned choreographer Comfort Fedoke will be visiting Nigeria as judges for a new dance TV series dubbed “The Cut”.  Thanks to the meteoric rise of Afrobeats music, the past decade has seen dance enthusiasts from all over the world tilt on a rapidly increasing pace towards Africa to tap from her inexhaustible infectious dance culture. This cultural phenomenon and those who drive it (the dancers) is what ‘The Cut’ seeks to uphold. To be produced by Hey What’s On, a notable New York and Lagos based multimedia and marketing company, The Cut which will be televised to millions across Africa, will see aspiring dancers compete to win a coveted 6-month scholarship to train at the Dance 411 Studios (Atlanta, Georgia, USA) – one of the most prominent dance schools in the world. Winners will also secure representation from 411 South Talent, an agency which represents some to the best actors, dancers and choreographers in America. Speaking on what birthed The Cut, Executive Producer and CEO of Hey What’s On, Chichi Nwoko revealed: “We realised that the entertainment space is growing and more and more dancers want to develop professionally. The talent is here but the opportunities are not enough. THE CUT will change everything, and bridge the gap between local talent and global opportunity”. Enter Diddi Emah Diddi Emah Didi is a seasoned dance artiste known to have hoisted the Nigerian flag on various global platforms. She’s toured with Black Eyed Peas ad Ludacris, worked with Ciara, Usher, Jennifer Lopez, Jason Derulo, Davido with her 2018 Coachella solo performance with Beyonce as the most recent of her numerous feats.  Comfort a multi-talented, Emmy-Award Winning dancer, choreographer, director, actress, and singer. She has spearheaded ad featured on a number of reputable projects including the popular Step Up 5 movie. Comfort was also featured in Nike’s 30-year celebration of Air commercial and performed live with talented artists such as Kanye West, LL Cool J, Rihanna, Wale,Jason Derulo, JLo, and Missy Elliott.  The producers, Hey What’s On have worked on a number of notably successful television projects including; Kids Say TheDarndest Things and Nigerian Idols Interested participants can follow The Cut across social media platforms @TheCutNaija and #CutOrBeCut to stay updated.