The wife of a police Inspector attached to Olosan Police Division, Mushin, Lagos, Onyinye Linda Nwadegwu, has allegedly bitten off a female Sergeant’s ear during a minor misunderstanding. She was also alleged to have bathed the female Sergeant, Unongu A. O. Blessing, and her daughter with pepper during a quarrel. However, counsel to the assaulted woman, Mr. Solomon Oladele, has written a petition to the police authority in the state to investigate the allegations and ensure that justice is done. The petition dated November 15, 2018, and titled “Save Our Soul”, Threat To Life Assault Occasioning Harm and Intimidation of Woman Sergeant Unongu A. O. Blessing By Linda Nwadegwu” was sent to the Assistant Inspector-General of Police Zone 2, Onikan, Lagos. Also, the lawyer copied the Deputy Commissioner of Police, State Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department (SCIID) Panti-Yaba, Lagos, urged the police to do justice in the matter while the case should not be swept under carpet because somebody’s life is at stake apart from the fact that she has sustained permanent deformation. A copy of the acknowledged petition read, “We act as solicitors to W’Sgt. Unoccupied A. 0. Blessing residing at Olosan Barracks, Mushin, Lagos (herein referred to as; our client) and on her instruction and mandate we write to solicitor for your urgent intervention into our issues as follows. “It is the case of our client that on the 31st of October, 2018, while going to her office, one Onyinye Linda Nwadegwu attacked her by spraying pepper on her face and also on the face of her daughter that followed her over a minor issue which they have already settled within parties. “It was a serious agony that after spreading the pepper on the face of our client, as this was not enough, she ran after our client and bite her ear to the extent that she cut it down with her teeth, although this wouldn’t have been possible but the act was perfectly carried out with the efforts and assistance of one Seun Oladimeji ‘F’ who held the hands of our client hostage and allowed Onyinye Linda to perfect her ulterior motive.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .