Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello The death of Prince Abubakar Audu, who was Kogi State’s gubernatorial candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC) for the November 2015 election, altered a lot of things, particularly the politics of the state where he was on course for a third term as governor before gave up the ghost. Audu’s eldest son, Muhammad, recalled the painful development over the weekend at Ogbonicha in Ofu Local Government Council of the state, during the third anniversary of his late father’s demise. He said apart from the painful loss, which humbled him, the death of his father was the biggest blow to the socio-political temperature of the state. Muhammad added that it has been tough and difficult trying to step into his father’s shoes, especially meeting the big challenge of maintaining his political organisation. He said, “He was a very successful politician, administrator, successful father, a very successful community man, and he was a statesman as well. Nationally, people adored him. In the state people, miss him. In the family having come to the realisation that he has gone finally, because of the way he affected the daily lives of everybody, a lot of people look up to me to fill up those responsibilities.” The young Audu assured friends and supporters, “I will try my best, but it is not a day’s job; it is not an easy task. I used to think that all that thing he was dancing with was a piece of cake, but I have realised that he was carrying a lot of load beyond what anyone can just think of. “What was even more outstanding about it was that he succeeded and excelled very well. For his people and his followers in Kogi State I am sure there is light at the end of the tunnel; they will see better days and grace at the end of the day.” He disclosed that Audu’s political family is still intact in the state, explaining: “Very soon Audu’s political family will come together and fuse into a massive political movement for the sake of delivering the people from the squalor they are facing presently.” Muhammad added that during the 2014 governorship campaign, his late father promised to provide good roads, hospitals, education and other social amenities, but regreted that he was not alive to consolidate on his promises after winning the election. He stressed that his late father was going to make sure that the common man did not walk to the stream to get water anymore, that local farmers did not bend under heavy yolk in the farm the whole day without proper farming instruments. “Today, we are still praying for it and I understand, but I also want you to understand that the days ahead, the weeks ahead in Kogi State, are not going to be easy because change can only be brought about only by sincerity of purpose,” he said. Muhammad boasted that the biggest political group in Kogi State remains the Audu political family, insisting that the group is still up and alive, adding: “We have simmered down so that we don’t look like opposition within one party. We have decided to work with the government to ensure good governance so that our people can get roads, hospitals, good education and things like that. “Now that it is time to play politics people will begin to discuss their interests, he said. “So for sure the Audu political family is the biggest political organisation. If you look in PDP they are there; if you look at APC, ADC, SDP, they are there but at the right time we will call everybody together for the sake of the state.” On his rumoured governorship ambition, Muhammad said first things should come first, adding, “Like I told you, let us start with the National Assembly and the State Assembly; that will confirm anybody’s aspiration, but for now let us try to deliver good people for the state so that at all levels of governance the state would be able to excel and experience good things.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .