 Mr & Miss Nigeria 2018 winners  Tagged heritage edition, the grand finale featured contest parade, music, comedy and award presentation to some outstanding Nigerians. In his welcome address, the CEO of Brendance & Crusader Ltd, the organisers of the event Brendan Nsikak thanked those, who have been supporting the pageant since inception. “To everyone that has been there for us since we started, I thank you for letting us in and for helping us forward, also I would like to give thanks to the Almighty Father for bringing us thus far and giving us the strength, courage faith and determination to succeed.” This year’s edition witnessed a better organisation and improvement from previous edition. From contestants picking forms after which they were pruned down for the main event. With a total of 29 contestants from age 17 – 25, each contestant represented his or her respective culture and states across the country. Highpoint of the event was the unveiling of winners in each category. Mr Nigeria International (Delta): Victor Isaac Ojeh; Mr Nigeria International Global (Ogun), Popoola Adeayo Olubukola; Mr Nigeria International Tourism (Bayelsa), King Baratuapre Terry Fahya; Mr Nigeria International Top (FCT), Nicholas Festus. Mr Nigeria International Heritage (Ebonyi), Okoye Arinze; Mr Charismatic (Abia), Anthony Blessing;
Eastern King (Enugu), Ihabe Godwin; Western King (Ondo), Akinbola Omoboyawo; Northern King (Nasarawa), Sunday John; Southern King (Akwa Ibom) Patrick Onyebuchi.
 
Miss Nigeria International (Ebonyi), Victory Obasi; Miss Nigeria International Classic (Edo), Gloria Yunusa; Miss Nigeria International Tomorrow (Ogun), Sijuade Ademola; Miss Nigeria International Topmodel (Imo), Ngene Chiamaka Mary Precious; Miss Nigeria International Teen (Lagos), Akinyemi Olapeju; Miss Amity (Ondo), Aruwajoye Mary; Miss Charismatic (Kogi), Olorunfemi Adeola; Eastern Queen (Anambra), Odum Nnenna; Southern Queen (Baylesa), Dada Ademide; Western Queen (Ekiti), Adeosun Oluwaseun.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .