 Head, Human Resource and Public Relations, Greenlife Pharmaceutical, Mrs. Amaka Nwosisi. Photo/ reportnaija  Speaking at the prize giving ceremony held in Lagos, the Head, Human Resource and Public Relations, Greenlife Pharmaceutical, Mrs. Amaka Nwosisi reiterated the need to make the prizes of reading and writing competition attractive to children so that they would be encouraged. Nwosis noted that reading and writing culture is dying, because of the value society placed on them. “This competition was birthed to revive the reading and writing habit in our society, by catching the attention of these children before they grow to be adults. I also challenged other corporate bodies to shift their focus from entertainment and invest in the education of the young children.” For the primary school short story category, eight-year-old Demilade Olaere from Livingspring School Lagos came first while nine-year-old Jailyn Nsofor from Corona School, Lagos emerged as the winner first in poetry contest. In the secondary school category, Ofomata Chinyere from Louisville Girls College, Ijebu Itele, Ogun State came tops in the short story competition while Snow George from Starville School, Abuja, took the grand prize in poetry. Also rewarded were, Zoe Onyeke from St Saviours, Ikoyi, Lagos State; Udo-Okafor Chimchetaram, the Nickdel School, Lagos; Ayogu Alienor, from Louisville Girls College, Ijebu Itele, Ogun State; Emmanuel Adebayo, Starville School, Abuja, among others. HP laptops, TV sets, Tablets, Computers, were the prizes given to the winners and runners-up, while HP printers were given as consolation prizes for the second runner-ups. Similarly, chairman of the occasion, Mrs Ifeoma Nwosu, admitted that we do not have a good education system in the country but Greenlife will contribute its own quota so as to get it right again. The Coordinator, Rising Star Writing Competition, Mrs Uche Udoji, advised the parents, teachers, and schools on the urgent need to lay more emphasis on literacy, especially creative writing, so as to ignite a love for writing in the children from a young age. She added: “The ceremony was not just to award deserving winners, but to inspire every child desirous of being a writer to pick up and develop their writing skills so as to express themselves confidently.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .