 Amaju Pinnick. PHOTO: BBC  The NFF President, Amaju Pinnick led some of his colleagues on a courtesy visit to GTI Capital Group’s head office in Marina, Lagos, where they resolved to explore the many derivatives from the peoples game. In Pinnick’s entourage were the NFF First Vice President, Seyi Akinwunmi and another board member, Akin Majekodunmi. Explaining the move towards exploring the sector, Group Managing Director, GTI Capital Limited, Abubakar Lawal said the investment banking group was committed to the development of a ‘football economy’ by investing in key infrastructure and resources that would engender sustainable development of the Nigerian football industry. According to him, GTI Capital is leading private-sector initiatives that would change the face of football in the country by harnessing the globally renowned passion of Nigerians for football into mutually beneficial investment vehicles that simultaneously drive football development and reward passionate supporters and investors in football. In reply, Pinnick commended the ongoing initiatives at GTI Capital, noting that a strategic partner like the group would complement the efforts aimed at transforming football in Nigeria.He said the NFF was determined to make a difference in football governance in Nigeria and as such, would need the support of committed private sector partners like GTI Capital. He said his re-election as NFF president has given more impetus to pursue serious initiatives that would change Nigerian football for the better.Also speaking at the event, Managing Director, GTI Asset Management & Trust Limited, Amos Aledare noted that in today’s world, football has been evolving as a distinct economic sector and major revenue earner in countries where its capacity to deliver this contribution has been properly recognized and harnessed. He lamented that football has unfortunately remained an untapped tool for economic development in Nigeria, expressing optimism that the collaboration between NFF and GTI Capital would lead to a rebirth of the Nigerian football sector. He added that the GTI Capital-NFF partnership represents a new dawn for the Nigerian football industry. In his contribution, Chief Operating Officer, GTI Capital Limited, Kehinde Hassan explained that football, being the most popular sport in the world, is run as a business in developed countries.  He outlined that the round leather game has been a veritable source of income in many countries including England, Spain, Germany, Italy and France among others. Chief Economist & Head, Corporate Transformation, GTI Capital Limited, Prof. Martin Ike-Muonso noted that with a fan base of approximately 85 per cent of Nigerians, the translation of the passion to commerce being championed by GTI Capital would create employments, earn governments more revenue in tax, more foreign exchange, improve supporting infrastructure and generally formalize a football economy.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .