The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has restated commitment towards restoring Biafra sovereignty through peaceful and democratic process, stressing it would not be deterred by confrontations with security agents. The group also dismissed as “untrue” reports that its members on a campaign march of “no elections” next year in southeastern states on Friday, attacked and killed a police officer in Nnewi. It said those allegedly arrested by the police, following the incident, could be poor innocent citizens, as no member of the group was missing from the peaceful protest. Reports had it that the peaceful protest turned bloody and allegedly led to the death of four persons, following a clash between the protesting group and police, while attempting to gain entry into Nnewi Main Market. However, in a statement made available to The Guardian, yesterday, by the Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, IPOB said it has never indulged in violence or crime, no matter the level of provocation from security agents and Nigerian government. The statement read: “It is shocking and baffling that people in government have decided to use some media houses to propagate false information and lies against IPOB activities, not minding that we have remained peaceful and civil in every of our outing and conduct, especially the recent ‘no election’ evangelism that happened in Nnewi, Anambra State. What happened, yesterday, at Nnewi, Anambra State is another example of a lawless police organisation intent on causing trouble.”It explained that the officer in question was actually hiding inside a gutter and had resurfaced afterwards. IPOB noted: “After hiding a policeman in the sewer, Anambra police authority had the temerity to lie. It was the police that raced to the venue of a peaceful march uninvited, and as usual, started shooting and attacking IPOB family members, who were on a peaceful rally in commemoration of our leader’s reappearance in Jerusalem.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .