 Aerial view of buildings and markets on Lagos Island.  Many others, including one beggar, sustained fatal injuries during the attack by the miscreants. Also, many traders lost their goods to the mayhem as the warring youths used the opportunity to break into shops and carted away goods. According to a source in the area, the Okepopo boys invaded Onola area on Friday night after the release of their point man named ‘Falapa’ by the police. “It was during the attack that the Okepopo boys shot and macheted a boy who was sleeping inside a Keke Marwa at the front of Iga Faji, while some boys and a beggar were seriously wounded during the invasion,” he narrated. As a result of the incident and sympathy for the deceased, Onola youths and their symphatisers grouped and launched an attack on Okepopo area where four of the earlier invaders were allegedly killed. The Okepopo boys again launched another attack on Sunday night but met hard resistance from Onola youths, who had laid a siege for them, which led to the death of some persons from Okepopo. It was gathered that some traders whose shops had been burgled joined forces with Onola youths to deal with the Okepopo boys who were alleged to have turned the constant fight into looting and robbing innocent persons of their belongings. Efforts by the police teams from Area ‘A’ command, Adeniji Adele division, Jankara and Lion building divisional stations to end the constant mayhem proved abortive as the miscreants brandished sophisticated weapons. “When the police teams moved around the affected areas and returned to their bases, the Okepopo boys launched a counter-attack and within 15 minutes, they carried out their operation and went back into hiding,” the source revealed. The attack and counter attack has, however, reduced since Tuesday night when some military personnel joined the police team to patrol the affected areas and arrest some of the suspects. When newsmen went round the affected areas yesterday, which included Itafaji, Isale-gangan, Princess, Anikantamo, Evans, Massey, Okepopo, Koilo, Atiko and other adjacent streets, few shopowners opened to customers. The military team was seen assembled at Oshodi/Tokunboh junction on Lagos Island, but usually go round with police in mufti with the aim of arresting the youths. Also, moving around the affected areas around 6:00p.m. has become dreadful since anyone could be attacked at the slightest provocation. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .