The National Chairman of the United Progressives Party (UPP), Chief Chekwas Okorie, yesterday accused the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of not having anything to show in the South east for the support the people gave the administration for 16 years. Rather, he alleged that the PDP-led Federal Government ensured that the entire southeast zone became one large area of abandoned construction works. At a press conference in Enugu, after leading a pan-Igbo organization, the Igboezue Cultural Advancement Initiative (ICAI), which he founded, to adopt President Muhammadu Buhari as their candidate in the 2019 presidential election, Okorie alleged that PDP deliberately kept southeast out of the scheme of things. “If this is not deliberate, then what will be the explanation for the very painful fact that in 16 years, there is no project that was started and completed by the PDP government in any part of the southeast geo political zone? We are aware that the PDP has an unwritten policy that no Igbo person will ever be the president of Nigeria until 150 years after the Nigeria-Biafra war. “The manner in which the military junta of Abdulsalam Abubakar presided over the massive deceit of the entire Igbo people by the PDP in the short-changing of the late Dr. Alex Ekwueme in his bid to become the party’s presidential candidate in 1999 is an unprecedented and biggest political 419 ever perpetrated against any race in Nigeria by a political party and its military sponsors,” he said. Okorie spoke as the Director General of the Voice of Nigeria (VON), Mr. Osita Okechukwu commended Southeast governors for what he described as their wisdom and pragmatism, as evidenced in the meeting they held with President Buhari on Wednesday night. In a statement in Enugu yesterday, Okechukwu also thanked the Secretary to Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha for reminding Ndigbo at the occasion for the second time that Buhari’s victory presents the quickest route to Nigeria president of Igbo extraction in 2023. Meanwhile, the Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN) has laughed off the campaign slogan and the document released by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) titled “Next Level”, interpreting it as next level of making Nigeria and Nigerians poorer. According to the ANN, the Buhari’s “Next Level” with a rider: “We are going higher” can suggest one of three things; the exchange rate is going higher or the poverty level is going higher or the number of failed businesses and unemployment is going higher. The Director General, Fela Durotoye campaign organisation, Lanre Oyegbola, said: “This position of the APC and their team is very apt. It describes the widening gap between the haves and the have nots. Between the elites and the common Nigerian like Leah Shuaibu who has suffered because her government whose primary responsibility is to protect her life and property has failed and this failure is recently announced to go higher when re-elected. “The promise of next level is at best to clearly communicate that whatever is remaining of Nigerians is about to be completely wiped out. Easy to seduce because when they promised change before the 2015 general elections, majority of Nigerian were of the view that the change was going to be not just a change in government but also in change of the quality of life. Today, it’s nearly four years after and poverty level has deepened and hunger has bitten harder than ever before. So to go higher is indeed a promise of more hardship and pain to come.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .