 [FILE PHOTO] INEC Chairman, Prof Mahmoud Yakubu  INEC National Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, said the development was unhealthy and would not advance the nation’s democracy. He said: “We don’t want a situation where they would say the commission is disobeying court orders. We want to deliver credible elections in 2019 to move our democracy forward.” Yakubu, who was represented by the National Commissioner on Voter Education and Information, Dr. Festus Okoye, spoke at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), during a Campus Outreach organised by the European Centre for Electoral Support (ECES). He dismissed rumours that it’s National Commissioners; Amina Zakari has refused to leave office, even after her tenure had elapsed. The chairman disclosed that to enhance the elections next year, all delivery vans conveying sensitive electoral materials would be tracked from the point of departure, and would be demobilised where necessary. Meanwhile, the INEC chairman will on November 15, deliver a lecture to mark the sixth anniversary of Realnews magazine and publications. Yakubu is expected to speak on: “Political Transitions and Africa’s Economic Development,” at the event scheduled for Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja, Lagos at 10:a.m. Publisher/Editor of the online publication, Maureen Chigbo, said the theme was influenced by contemporary political, economic, security and socio-cultural challenges facing Africa. These challenges, she said, include Nigeria, which is regarded as the “Giant of Africa,” especially as it prepares for general elections in 2019. Chigbo disclosed that Yakubu was chosen to deliver the lecture because of his world-class experience, academic antecedents and current position as INEC chairman. She said the event would also witness interactive sessions by a panel of discussants to speak on Africa’s maturing democratic and economic culture. Among them are Dean, School of Education, Behavioural & Social, and a Professor of Economics at the College of Southern Nevada, Nevada System of Higher Education, Charleston Campus, Las Vegas, U.S.A, Dr. Charles Okeke, Director, Africa and West Regional Programme and Liaison Office of the African Union, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, Prof. Adebayo Olukoshi, and Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board, Bayelsa, Nigeria, Engr. Simbi Wabote. The publisher added that the magazine would inaugurate some distinguished personalities into the prestigious Realnews Hall of Fame. The hall, according to her, is exclusively reserved for guest speakers, discussants; Realnews book reviewers and chairpersons at its anniversary lecture series. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .