 [File] PVC  He promised to use the Christmas and New Year celebrations, when many people will be at home, to begin the campaign. Ezeonu, made the disclosure at the weekend in Owerri, the state capital, while delivering a lecture on sustainable development as it affects southeast zone. The event was the annual lecture and award ceremony of the Imo State branch of the University of Lagos Alumni Association. The REC lamented that the electorate are demanding to enthrone credible persons in governance, but do not want to collect their PVCs from INEC offices across the state. He ruled out the possibility of collecting the cards by proxy, maintaining that it was against the electoral law. The REC explained that it stopped the idea of giving the PVCs to monarchs for distribution to the owners who are their subjects. He disclosed that two of his workers who gave PVCs by proxy were sacked following the authenticated petitions from some petitioners in the affected communities. On other national issues, the professor of Applied Bio-Chemistry, Drug and Pharmaceutical Chemistry advocated decongesting exclusive list in our constitution and giving more powers to states. “There is too much balkanization, and we should learn to grow above this by abolishing these artificial borders,” he said. He expressed regrets that Nigerians had one of the worst Human Development Index (HDI), suffering in poverty and hunger, despite the enormous natural resources in the country. Meanwhile, the governorship candidate of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Enugu State, Senator Ayogu Eze, yesterday unveiled his programme. Eze, who spoke in Enugu, said he has what it takes to deliver “five star performances” in the state, if elected governor next year, while promising to run an open and transparent administration. He dismissed the notion of lean resources, as responsible for the alleged under performance of the current administration. He said: “The Board of Internal Revenue has been generating about N3billion every month. This outside other interventions as the Paris Club refunds; salary augmentation and many other sources of revenues that accrue to the state.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .