Fashion designer, Steve Maddens got more than he expected when he berated Nicki Minaj by calling her a liar. In an attempt to voice his opinion on the “Nicki Minaj-Cardi B” fight which has since ended on social media, the brand’s social media account said that Minaj’s claim that producer Irv Gotti asked that she seal a deal with the brand “several times” which she ignored was a liar. .@NICKIMINAJ you can’t turn down an offer that was never made. #StopLying. — STEVE MADDEN (@SteveMadden) October 30, 2018  However, 50 Cent quickly claimed that she was right and posted receipts where he had said that he wanted to work with her. j “I was gonna do a collaboration with Nicki Minaj and we got into a fight the first minute we met. And then we patched it up. We were cool. We text each other; we became sort of buddies. We were thinking of doing something, and I would’ve, but I was with Iggy [Azalea] and I thought, ‘Coke and Pepsi.’ It was a mistake. I made a mistake and I wish that I could go back in time and work with Nicki instead of Iggy,” Maddens claimed in a 2015 Vibe interview. Minaj, on the other hand, went hard in her response to this accusations Eat a dick nigga. You lied on me cuz it was the trendy thing 2do! Ain’t nobody buyin that clown shit. We couldn’t work together cuz I said the shoes were ugly. You see how when you do clownery it comes back to bite? WE NOT BUYING IT!!!!!! Respond to 50 instead of picking on women https://t.co/i6broZ6HB6 — QUEEN (@NICKIMINAJ) October 31, 2018  Maddens probably thought of his actions because he backtracks in his next tweet: .@NICKIMINAJ is an incredibly talented artist but we couldn’t work together cuz the timing wasn’t right. @iamcardib came on the scene and I had a fantastic collaboration with her, and she is also an amazing talent. I love… — STEVE MADDEN (@SteveMadden) October 31, 2018  both @NICKIMINAJ and @iamcardib music. I hope they can reach some peace — together they could probably take over the world. There is a lot of negativity out there right now, and I shouldn’t have contributed to that. -Steve — STEVE MADDEN (@SteveMadden) October 31, 2018 