 [FILE PHOTO]  The south east zone committee led by Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State Photo/ NAN  The south east zone committee led by Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State will meet party stakeholders in the five eastern states. In a statement, the committee invited all aspirants, candidates for 2019 elections, aggrieved persons or groups and other major stakeholders in the party for amicable settlement. According to the committee, the interaction with the party members hold in Owerri on November 29, Umahia on November 30, Awka on December 1; Abakaliki on December 2 and Enugu on December 3, 2018. “The committee seeks the kindness of all party faithful to prepare their minds for amicable settlement of all disputes and conflicts with a view to reaching agreements that will ensure stability of the party and guarantee victory in the 2019 general elections,” it added. Meanwhile, the Akinlayo Kolawole group within the APC in Ekiti State has called on the leadership of the party to dissolve council and ward executive committees in three councils, to accommodate general interest. Rising from a meeting in Akure, Ondo State, the group led by former House of Representatives aspirant for Ekiti North Federal Constituency II, Mr. Akinlayo Kolawole, said that only the dissolution of the ward and council executives in Ido/Osi, Ilejemeje and Moba could engender peace and harmony in the party ahead of the 2019 general elections. It charged the leadership of the party to accommodate all interests in the new leadership of the party in the three councils to restore unity in the party before the general elections. The group frowned at the situation where some leaders were sidelined in the scheme of things. “The issue of exco in the three councils making up Ekiti North Federal Constituency II should be looked into by dissolving them in accordance with the party’s constitution.” It criticised the conduct of primaries in the state, particularly the manner its leader, Kolawole, was reportedly rigged out. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .