 Testmaster educational limited has launched a new software to enhance students’ performance in mathematics and enable them maximise their potentials.  Chief Operations Officer and co-founder, Testmaster Educational Limited, Ofir Zukovsky said the app was created to support teachers’ efforts in preparing students for academic success. “Testmaster is a solution that allows every student in Nigeria access to top quality education, at an affordable cost by providing easy access to the best digital private tutor on major subjects, in compliance with the senior school certificate and Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) curricular, anytime and on any digital device. He explained that the new app consists of 16 smart books, each containing thousands of original exercises and theoretical lesson explanations, where each exercise is linked to a comprehensive, self-explanatory short video solution making learning highly effective and productive. And all presented by highly experienced Nigerian professional teachers and academic tutors. He said, “Thousands of students have already mastered their final exams using Testmaster. The product addresses the weak as well as the strong students with what this millennial generation truly seeks- a short, intuitive, visual, professional and simple way to pass through these turbulent periods. Speaking at the press conference for the 2019 Testmaster national mathematics contest while launching the maiden edition of the special annual national mathematics program. Testmater Education, an International company with a local Nigerian branch is comprised of foreign as well as indigenous educational experts with proven track record in developing and marketing successful techno-pedagogical solutions to millions of children/students worldwide. Testmaster’s Country Representative, Paul Olatunde explained that the 2019 national secondary schools’ mathematics TV quiz show, tagged “Master of Maths” provides senior secondary school two students in public and private schools the opportunity to compete on a live television quiz show. “Master of Maths is not just another mathematics competition but one that inspires Nigerian students for greater achievements through the magic introduced by Testmaster. Besides, mathematics teachers are being empowered with new digital ‘personal assistants’ which would improve their teaching skills”, he stated. While the winner would receive N200, 000 cash and a trophy, the first and second runners up will be rewarded with N150, 000 and N100, 000 respectively. He added that top three students from each state at stage one would also receive cash prizes while mathematics teachers of all the winning students at state and national levels would also be rewarded. Testmaster’s media and publicity consultant, Tunde Eso, said the 2019 National Secondary School Mathematics TV Quiz show registration is open.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .