Drama ensued on Thursday at Anambra House of Assembly as officers of the Nigeria Police locked lawmakers out of the assembly complex in Awka, the state capital. About 200 policemen had reportedly barricaded the entrance to the legislative complex as of 8:00 am on Thursday. Efforts made to persuade the policemen by the factional Speaker, Ikem Uzoezie and other lawmakers for about two hours failed as the security officers insisted on denying them access to the complex. Uzoezie, while lamenting the continued sealing of the state House of Assembly complex by the Police, described it as unconstitutional and an affront on democracy. The lawmakers denied access to the assembly were reported to be amongst those who plotted the impeachment of the Speaker, Rita Maduagwu. About 20 out of the 30 members of the House had, on Tuesday, 13th November, impeached Maduagwu for alleged financial impropriety, highhandedness, incompetence and gross misconduct. Maduagwu, who later gained access to the chamber, presided over a session with 11 members of the House and described her impeachment as “a bundle of illegality.” The state government had also declared support for Maduagwu and asked the parallel members of the House to douse the pressure on the lawmaker. The All Progressives Grand Alliance, Anambra State chapter, as a consequence had suspended the factional Speaker, Uzoezie, with the Deputy Speaker, Hayford Oseke and Victor Okoye, who were identified as masterminds behind the impeachment plot. The police spokesman in the state, Haruna Mohammed, confirmed that the lawmakers were denied entrance into the legislative complex. He said the Police action was in response to an application from the leadership of the House to protect the complex. “We had earlier issued a press statement notifying the public of sealing off of the Assembly. We stand on that press statement,” Mohammed said. Mohammed said the duration to which the assembly would continue to be sealed was dependent on instructions from the state police command. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .