Top smartphone companies appear to be having problems with their latest products: Phil Schiller, Apple senior vice president, discusses his company’s iPhone line-up during an event on September 12, 2018, in Cupertino, California.<br />New iPhones set to be unveiled Wednesday offer Apple a chance for fresh momentum in a sputtering smartphone market as the California tech giant moves into new products and services to diversify. Apple was expected to introduce three new iPhone models at its media event at its Cupertino campus, notably seeking to strengthen its position in the premium smartphone market a year after launching its $1,000 iPhone X. / AFP PHOTO / NOAH BERGER Forbes has revealed that the new iPhones are having a major setback with its new models, iPhone XR and XS. To salvage the problem, Apple is giving cash incentives to interested customers. Already, a 512GB iPhone XS Max costs $1450 (N527,800) before sales tax. Apple has also requested an order reduction from its Chinese manufacturers by 25%. Meanwhile, the company has announced that it will give off up to $100 (N36,400) when they exchange their old models for the new ones. Huawei / GREG BAKER/AFP/Getty Images New Zealand has barred Spark, the country’s largest telecommunications company from using Huawei’s 5G equipment. According to CNN, the equipment if used, “would, if implemented, raise significant national security risks.” New Zealand’s spy agency, the Government Communications Security Bureau (GCSB) director, Andrew Hampton, affirmed this reveal. Spark is undergoing plans to build a 5G network. This poses a problem for the smartphone company that has invested in 5G technology. This will make it the second country after Australia to prevent the use of its 5G equipment. The UK is also being careful of its 5G. Meanwhile, the US has banned all Huawei products since 2012. In response to this, Huawei has said it will “actively address any concerns.” Samsung Galaxy S10 and S10 Plus. Photo: Ben Geskin Samsung might be stuck in a gridlock with their yet-to-be introduced Galaxy S10. While Samsung submitted the 5.8-inch Galaxy S10, the 6.2-inch Galaxy S10+ and the ‘flat’ Galaxy S10 budget model for certification, the 6.7-inch Galaxy S10 flagship was reportedly missing. This will make it the second time that the flagship device tagged Beyond X will be missing from the certification submission. Critics fear that the Samsung might be finding it difficult living to their revolutionary promises.