 President Muhammadu Buhari  Chieftains of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bayelsa State have backed the re-election bid of President Muhammadu Buhari. The leaders declared this in a letter to Buhari, a copy of which was obtained by The Guardian. Among them were a former Acting Governor of Bayelsa State, Nestor Binabo, a former House of Representatives member, Dr. Stella Dorgu, ex-member of the lower chamber, Indiamaowei Bolous, and Senator Felix Otiotio. Others are Maj. Andrew Oputa (retd.); Mr. Preye Aganaba, and the Chairman, APC in the state, Joseph Fafi.According to them, those opposing the re-election bid of the president are treasury looters and corrupt elements that raped the country for their selfish interests. The chieftains said their support for Buhari was based on his flawless character of integrity, commitment to prosperous Nigeria and love for the masses.They added that Buhari’s re-election would enable him to consolidate on his achievements and raise a new breed of patriotic leaders. Meanwhile, a cleric in Kaduna, Rev. Raphael Ogunkunle, has described the Buhari-led government as ordained by God.Ogunkunle, who is from the Seed of Life Disciples Global Ministry, a Cherubim and Seraphim Movement Church in Kaduna, declared this at his ministry’s 10th anniversary thanksgiving service. He urged Nigerians to give thanks to God for his achievements so far. But, the Bishop of the Church of Nigeria (Anglican Diocese), Ife East Diocese, Rt. Rev. Oluseyi Oyelade, disagreed. He urged Buhari to be wary of insincere politicians around him, who are pushing him to seek a second term ticket without considering his state of health. In a related development, the National Chairman APC, John Odigie-Oyegun, has disclosed that it was the people’s wish that made Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha to lose out in the recent state congresses.He dismissed Okorocha’s allegation that he worked against him because he was opposed to his tenure elongation.He said: “Okorocha wasn’t the strongest force behind the objection to the so-called tenure elongation issue. “So why is his case different? I don’t think it is necessary to go into the details.”Still on APC, a member representing Ezza North/ Ishielu Federal Constituency, in Ebonyi State, Anayo Nwonu has declared that the party has nothing to show Nigerians after three years of being in position.Nwonu declared this in Abakaliki at the final of the quiz competition he organised for secondary schools in his constituency.In Enugu, the re-elected chairman of the APC Dr. Ben Nwoye enjoined the leadership of the party to investigate the alleged use of political thugs to disrupt state congress. Nwoye also asked the National Assembly to investigate the activities of the Department of State Services (DSS) for compromising in its responsibilities, as well as well as
“being used to foment crisis in the state chapter.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .