 Kanayo  This is the indubitable top Nollywood actor Kanayo O. Kanayo declaring his intention to represent his community of Ahiazu/Ezinihitte Mbaise Federal Constituency in Imo State at the Federal House of Representatives. The actor who holds a national honour of Member of the Federal Republic took to his social media handles to announce his intention to represent his Federal Constituency, this time under the aegis of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA). It will be recalled that the actor of many credits who is at the verge of completing a law programme failed to secure the nomination of the then ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to represent his constituency in 2011.  KOK as the actor and later day politician is simply called by colleagues and friends, returned to the turf after that attempt and shortly after he got appointed as Chairman of the Governing Board of the National Institute of Tourism and Hospitality Studies (NIHOTOURS). Soon as the Board was dissolved by the present administration, KOK dashed back, grabbed screen roles and started ground works for his next political move. The terse message he left on his instagram and other social media handles is that move.  KOK wrote: “Hello Friends, good evening. History has been made today as I declared my intention to run for the House of Representatives, Ahiazu/Ezinihitte Mbaise Federal Constituency, Imo State under the All Progressive Grand Alliance, APGA. I owe you this information as I enlist your prayers and support. Over and Out”. KOK later called to assure that the declaration was real and that he has consulted widely and is now more than ready to seek his people’s mandate to represent them. Born Anayo Modestus Onyekwere, KOK has received the 2006 African Movie Academy Awards (AMAA) as best actor in a leading role and has also received the AMAA Life Time Achievement Award. Focused and principled, KOK made his debut in 1992 as a leading actor (Chief Omego) in the phenomenal Nollywood movie Living in Bondage.  An alumnus of the University of Lagos, KOK who prides himself as having come from the single largest community in Nigeria (Mbaise) with the highest number of movie stars in Nollywood  (Genevieve Nnaji, Rita Dominic, Eucharia Anunobi etc.) is undoubtedly one of the pioneer members of the Nollywood industry. The actor who cut his teeth as an actor in four of NTA’s rested soaps, Ripples, Checkmates, Village Headmaster and the New Masquerade is listed on the credit lines of hit movies like Circle of Doom, Frame Up, Lost Kingdom, Nneka the Pretty Serpent, Apaye and Across the Nigeria. The actor’s actor of vast credit who outside acting enjoys a lucrative past time as event compare and communication consultant, has appeared in over 250 movies from 1992 till date and has equally garnered awards from home and abroad including the Afro-Hollywood Award, ZAFAA Academy Award of Excellence and the Ambassador Award which he received in New York. Appointed by the Board of Trustees of the Actor Guild of Nigeria (AGN) at a time to head the guild in interim capacity, Kanayo O. Kanayo who is cited in “who is who” in Nigeria, Year 2000 and The Igbo Icon 2006, is married and the union is blessed with children. Asked why he is taking this dash again after the last failed attempt, Kanoyo replied, “It is all about service. I have been serving them as an ambassador. Now I want to take my service a notch higher by being their voice at the Federal House of Representatives. I am on ground and I have been on ground and I know those gaps to fill. It is time to move up there to give my people a sense of belonging and to prove that is possible to selflessly serve them.’’  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .