 Lalong  The governor, who believes the sport will take Plateau State to the pinnacle of the tourism industry in Nigeria, reaffirmed his commitment to the development of the game. Speaking during the third anniversary celebration of the Lamingo Golf Club’s tournament in Jos, which this year served as part of the activities for the Democracy Day celebrations, Lalong said the combination of the clement weather condition and the hospitality nature of the Plateau citizens have boosted tourism potentials in the state. The celebration also included a children’s golf kitty to mark the Children’s Day, which held at the nine-hole Old Government House Golf Course. “Golf Course from all over, this person will ask me is there going to be any golf kitty, any tournament? Just like today, many people are asking me all over the country whether I was going to do a tournament. Because as you see it now, you will imagine, I was told, that now from last December to this time, if you don’t book your accommodation in Jos a week to the time, there will be no accommodation for people.”
   
Over 74 golfers registered for the epoch-making event, which accommodated both male and female players with the tee-off performed by the governor at the 18 Green Hole Lamingo Golf Course, Venue of the event.  
   
Chairman, Board of Trustees (BOT) Lamingo Golf Club, Air Marshal Jonah Wuyep; Captain Lamingo Golf Club, Chan Dapoet; Information Commissioner Yakubu Dati, Chief of Staff, John Dafan and others all witnessed the ceremony.
  
At the award presentation, Gloria Irene claimed the runners-up for the Ladies events ,while Grace Luka won the event having presented a handicap 17,93 gross and a net score of 76.
   
Murphy Dogun claimed the winners’ medals for the veterans’ category with a handicap 12, 8, 9 gross with a net score of 77, Manga Amancha won the top prize in the 6-8-2 – 15-28 category, while Dauda Izam grabbed the tournament’s grand prize with the handicap of 5-72 gross score and a net score of 67.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .