PHOTO: erickkasysavane.com As the world today marks the 2018 World Father’s Day, Nigerian children have eulogised their fathers for the huge sacrifices they are making daily for their upkeep. And for these sacrifices, the children are not only promising to make them proud, but to reciprocate the gesture in due season, while also wishing them more grease to their elbows. A cross section of pupils who spoke to The Guardian, reiterated that they were not unaware of the trying times that their fathers were going through as family heads, and the several occasions they’ve had to compromise their personal comfort, all in a bid to put food on the table for them. Setting the ball rolling, Ireoluwakomi Tunde Adetula, a Senior Secondary One (SS1) student of TDDC Schools and College, Ijegun, Lagos State, who wants to be an on-air-personality (OAP) said, “Fathers should be celebrated because they are caring, protective and always provide guidance. My daddy is a loving man, and anytime he travels, he usually buys things for us.” He added that he would love all fathers to be more caring and provide life necessities for their children, as well as fund their children’s education to enable them succeed in life. In the same vein, Adetula’s school mate, Ellington Elimihele, a Junior Secondary Three (JSS3) student said, “I think Father’s Day should be a day all children appreciate their fathers for all the good things they are doing for them.” While appealing to fathers to always exercise patience with their children and be less strict with them, he wishes that his father “becomes more successful” in order to continue providing for the family. While Kery Abasedimoh, a JSS3 student wants all fathers in the country to pay more attention to their children and “help them with their academic works, even during the FIFA World Cup holding in Russia,” Bolurin Tunde Adetula is of the view that since children need their fathers’ care and direction to turn out well, “fathers should try to create time for them. I think fathers should prioritise their children’s education and support their development.” Unable to thank her “strict, humble and understanding” father enough for his sacrifices and for always “paying my school fees,” Golibe Nwobi, a primary six pupil says she and the other family members would spare no effort in celebrating him “on this Father’s Day because he has been celebrating me every day. My mum, siblings and I will contribute money to buy him a wristwatch and cards.” For being a loving, kind father and head of the family, primary six pupil, Gbajumo Adeola, promises that, “ When I grow up, I would like to buy beautiful gifts for my father. I love my daddy because he is caring and loving,” even as she advised children against being “rude to their daddies.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .