Taoheed Adedoja One of the aggrieved chairmanship aspirants of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the December 9, 2017 national convention of the party, Professor Taoheed Adedoja, has resolved his differences with the leadership of the party. Adedoja who had approached the courts to contest the emergence of Uche Secondus as the Chairman of the party in the convention, has also withdrawn the matter while giving assurances of his readiness to continue working for the platform especially as the 2019 general election is approaching. Several chieftains of the party from the Southwest, including Adedoja, had distanced themselves from the party immediately after Secondus emerged saying that an earlier agreement to zone the position to the region was breached. Adedoja declared at a press conference in Abuja saying, “due to the intervention of well meaning top party leaders and major stakeholders as well as in the spirit of the month of Ramadan which preached forgiveness,” he has requested his lawyer, Messrs. Rikey Taffa and Co. to file the discontinuance of the case.
He disclosed that by discontinuing the case, “I am not asking for any compensation whatsoever from the party as only the Almighty can compensate any human being for his deeds and actions. “I remain a committed member of the party to ensure that the objectives of the founding fathers of our great party are achieved for the betterment of our country and for democracy to strive.” It will be recalled that after the December 2017 National Convention of the party held in Abuja, Adedoja challenged the outcome of the election of the National Chairman on the basis of the omission of his name on the National Chairmanship ballot paper. Sources close to the headquarters of the party revealed that prominent leaders of the party such as former Senate President Chief Pius Anyim Pius; Governor of Rivers State, Nelson Wike; Governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi; the Chairman of the reconciliation committee, Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa and the Chairman of former Ministers forum, Bar. Tanimu Turaki, SAN played key roles in finding political solution to the Adedoja case. Others who made the resolution possible are former Governors Rasidi Ladoja; Otunba Gbenga Daniel; Governor Ibrahim Dankwambo of Gombe State and Sen. Biodun Christine Olujimi. Adedoja had in January, 2018 filed a suit before a Federal High Court in Abuja to, amongst other things, “Declare the election of national chairman of the PDP held at the Eagle Square, Abuja, on December 09, 2017, null and void.” Prof. Adedoja also prayed the court to “Declare as null and void any document submitted by PDP or by the purported occupier of the position of the national chairman to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).” He had also asked the court to restrain INEC from recognising Secondus as the national chairman of the PDP on the grounds that in the election where he was declared national chairman of PDP, “I was unlawfully excluded from the list of the contestants for the position of the national chairman of PDP, which is a flagrant violation of the Electoral Act, the constitution of the PDP, the guidelines for the conduct of PDP national convention and the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” While praying the court to cancel the national chairmanship election, Adedoja called for the conduct of another elective convention “within 30 days of nullification of the elective national convention held on December 09, 2017.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .