 Election  A presidential hopeful on the platform of All Grassroots Alliance (AGA), Mr. Chuks Nwachukwu, made the observation recently while addressing journalists in Lagos. Nwachukwu also warned the electorate against returning the major opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), stressing that both APC and PDP have not only failed to move the country forward, but also succeeded in pitching the various ethnic groups against each other due to bad leadership and policies. The presidential aspirant, who presented his seven-point development agenda for the country to the media, said his reason for showing interest in the presidential race on the AGA platform was informed that the party is not tainted with corruption like others, particularly the two major political parties. The Abia State-born politician said his programme of action includes: reintroduction of economic prosperity, political restructuring, addressing national fissures, security, education, health and industrialisation. While promising to bring back prosperity to the country by revamping the economy through reversal of what he described as policy summersaults by the Central Bank, Nwachukwu declared: “The country’s economic prosperity process was aborted between 1985 and 1986 when the CBN introduced the ‘ruinous’ policy of fake make believe purchase of forex earnings for sale by auction. “The apex bank does not purchase any forex in naira, because it does not pay from its own vaults and certainly not at any competitive rate. They simply credit the accounts of the federal and state governments that do not exist. It thus creates naira, which comes back to chase the few forex that it makes available at its auction sales. “The bank deceived the country with talk of accumulating foreign reserves. We shall stop the conspiracy of our Central Bank with foreign banking organisation to kill us slowly. We are going to investigate thoroughly the management of our forex over t how he intends to address national fissures, the presidential hopeful said, “these gaps which have plagued the country with instability calls for urgent attention.” He lamented that the split made the Southeast to be disadvantaged in the national budget for many years, adding; “The South-South provided a more illogical situation being the zone that produces over 90 per cent of the foreign exchange component of the wealth of the country. “This has been addressed with the creation of the Niger Delta Development Commission and the Ministry of Niger Delta.” Nwachukwu recalled that a similar initiative is needed for the Southeast geopolitical zone to address the official development deficit. Presenting a document he titled: ‘Principles of Africanism’, the aspirant said it is time to reject leaders without self dignity, who choose to misrepresent their citizens before other world leaders. He said Africanism is a call for paradigm shift from being identified as consumers of goods, services and ideas to producers. “We have retrogressed because we have added to our endemic afflictions, insecurity from insurgency and terror that have claimed thousands of Nigerians lives and displaced millions of others making Nigeria one of the countries with the highest number of internally displaced persons in the world. “Africanism is the recognition and embracing of the challenge that confronts Africans to produce a continent that offers quality of life as good as that which us obtainable in any other region of the world,” he said. Nwachukwu added that deliberate efforts must be made to develop the African concepts, languages, and social institutions to support the production of modern social, economic, political and technological imperatives. “Technical advancement is easier and faster when it is rooted in the culture and values of the people and when it springs from a need to take these to the next level. It is the pursuit of the development of indigenous African technology.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .