Rochas Okorocha Enugu chapter retains Southeast zoning arrangement
The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has read the riot act to Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha for allegedly undermining the John Odigie-Oyegun-led National Working Committee (NWC) of the party. A statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Bolaji Abdullahi, noted that hardly a day passes without Okorocha verbally assaulting Odigie-Oyegun and other party leaders over the recently concluded congresses in the state. Its position was in response to an advertorial published in a national daily of June 11, 2018 titled: Let The Truth Speak For Itself, which was signed by one Ireagwu Obioma, in his capacity as Acting Secretary of the Imo APC. The party maintained that there were a number of false claims made against the party by Obioma, who was accused of doing Okorocha’s bidding. The party observed that the import of the allegations was that it was aware of a court order preventing it from conducting the congress following receipt of a copy of a court injunction, which directed it to maintain the status quo ante. According to the advertorial, a memo was generated by the Chief of Staff to the APC National Chairman, Edwin Ikhinmwin, and signed by the party’s Legal Adviser, Muiz Banire (SAN). “It is impossible for such an incoherent document to have emerged from our party, or any sane organisation-for one person to generate a memo and another to sign it,” the statement added. Meanwhile, as APC’s national convention inches closer, the Enugu State chapter has endorsed the existing zoning arrangements in the Southeast. The structure leaves the National Vice Chairmanship seat to Enugu, National Organising Secretary to Imo and National Auditor to Anambra. Those occupying the positions presently-Emma Enukwu (National Vice Chairman, Enugu), Osita Izunaso (Organising Secretary–Imo) and George Moghalu (Auditor-Anambra), are seeking reelection. Enugu State chairman of the party, Dr. Ben Nwoye, who read the communiqué of the state working committee meeting, held at the state secretariat, endorsed the zoning arrangement and the continuation of the present occupants in office. He said their continuing in office would further impact positively on the party in the 2019 general elections, stressing that their performance gave them an edge over other contenders. He stated that the party was not in support of any other contestants from the zone, adding that those fueling rumours of some aspirants were merely doing so to destabilise the APC and eventually work against President Muhammadu Buhari in next year’s general elections.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .