Governor Ambode. PHOTO: Twitter/AkinwunmiAmbode The Lagos State government will today launch the Vision Zero Conference, which is aimed at helping employees to develop attitudinal change and safeguard them at work. Governor Akinwunmi Ambode will be signing the Occupational Health and Safety Policy Statement for the state to serve as a platform to protect people from unsafe acts and conditions. The event, which will end on Thursday, will witness stakeholders from all walks of life. A statement by Director General, Lagos State Safety Commission (LSSC), Hakeem Dickson, said the programme became imperative due to recurring incidents and risks at the workplace that negatively affect workers’ safety, health and wellbeing. According to him, the Commission would drive the vision with a strategic approach to prevent, and integrate the three dimensions of Vision Zero. “The campaign was globally launched by International Social Security Association (ISSA) and International Labour Organization (ILO) at the XXI World Congress on Safety & Health at work 2017 in Singapore. It is aimed at cultivating a mindset that all diseases, injuries, illnesses and fatalities are preventable through the Seven Golden Rules. The African launch of Vision Zero is a welcome development “The Lagos State Safety Commission has created the Vision Zero awareness to generate the passion for a mindset change towards zero harm in workplaces. “The need for a mindset change and behavioural and attitudinal change cannot be overemphasized as the entire workplace system needs serious overhauling. He added that part of the Commission’s goal is to make safety a lifestyle by improving safety culture in Lagos, and the need to maintain the leading change is very important. Dickson added that the Lagos State Vision Zero Safety Health and Wellbeing at workplace aims for a paradigm shift of a global vision for better occupational safety and employees’ health, which, he said, should be managed in a comprehensive and integrated manner. “It will inculcate an attitude that all injuries and ill health arising from the workplaces are preventable and the commitment of employees and employers to promote and protect each other’s safety and health in the work place,” he said. He solicited commitment of leaders to the vision where accidents are preventable, support from employers and other relevant stakeholders towards the commission’s efforts to build an inclusive Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) Workplace strategy for the protection and education of workers. Dickson added that LSSC was committed to policy formulation and regulation, advisory, advocacy, as well as set safety standards for all sectors involved in social economic activities.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .