 Lagos NBA member, Mr. Chukwuma Ezeala (left); Former NBA National Secretary, Mazi Afam Osigwe; a lawyer, Mr.Uyi Ayela and another lawyer, Mr. Isah Abubakar, during a media parley with Mazi Afam Osigwe in Lagos.  The ex-scribe said his disqualification is unjust, unfair and unlawful, insisting that it would not stand.According to a letter from the electoral committee chairman, he was disqualified on three grounds. They are that there is no evidence before the committee to show that he paid annual dues and other financial obligations to Nnewi branch as and when due for at least three years preceding this years election. That there is no satisfactory proof of his relocation to Nnewi branch to accommodate him within the window of exception created by the proviso to paragraph 4(1) to the third schedule to the NBA constitution 2015 as amended and that the payment of his 2016 and 2017 dues cannot be verified.Osigwe who dismissed all the allegations, insisted that he has met all the qualification requirements as stipulated in by section 8(3) (a) (b)(d) of the NBA constitution. “I therefore respectfully submit that the reasons given for not clearing my nomination is with due respect not covered by the 2015 constitution of the NBA. In fact, my disqualification appears to lend credence to the boasts of some highly placed persons in the association and that not being a senior advocate, I will not be allowed to contest in this election,” he claimed. He called on the electoral body to restore his candidacy in order to avoid unnecessary conflict within the association.However, a statement by Nnewi branch affirmed that Osigwe is a member of the branch, adding that he had since paid his annual branch dues. “Electoral Committee of NBA (ECNBA) was in grave error when it refused to clear Mazi Osigwe from contesting for the post of the president on the ground among others that there was no satisfactory proof of his relocation to Nnewi branch….“We hope that these clarifications shall aid ECNBA in clearing our branch member to contest the office of the president of the NBA,” the statement signed by its chairman, E. C Chikaelo said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .