Director, Kiddies Vision Magazine, Mrs. Nnena Umeohia (L); Chairman, CICAE China Industry and Commercial Enterprise Association. Mr. Eric Ni (R) Standing with the Winners, Ikpe Divine for Health; Udezuka Amarachi for finance; Obiero Chioma for Sport; Amodi Chidera for Tourism; at the Grand Finale in Lagos. Winners have emerged in the fifth edition of Kiddies Vision magazine’s Young Ministers Competition. Held at the Oriental Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos, the grand finale, which tested the intelligence of Nigerian students on how well they know the country, also served as a platform to enlighten the children on the functions and activities of governments, facts and histories of the country. The competition, which is a 32-week television show, focuses on five selected ministerial seats and commissioner seats respectively. The ministerial seats focus on selected federal portfolios and their policies which is competed for by secondary students while the commissioner seats which focus on the same portfolio and policies at the state level is competed for by primary school pupils, and students have to go through four phases for winners to emerge. The organiser of the programme who is also the director, Kiddies Vision Magazine, Nnena Umeohia, said, “the grand finale is to celebrate the growth of the initiative, as well as winners of the fifth season of Young Ministers and Commissioners competition. This is the season five of the completion, so, we are here to give award to the winners in both categories after rigorous stages of the competition.” On her experience, she said, “It has been an awesome experience because we’ve been able to educate the children on government policies. IT has also been fun educating and challenging, that so many schools are now eager to belong. Everyone we approached when we started the competition ‘ran’ away; it was the CEO of Seven Stars Tissue Paper, Eric Ni, who welcomed the initiative and has remained a steadfast partner ever since. I went to so many companies and they turned me down but when I got to Ni, he immediately keyed into the programme but as we continued, many schools want to associate with the initiative and we had to turn some down because we don’t want to exceed the number of schools we plan for each year.” On his part, CEO of Seven Stars Tissue Paper, Eric Ni, said, “We give N50,000 to the overall winner in each category and we also support each school N20,000. I have been involved in this project since inception and I’m going to continue supporting them, with the support of my Chinese community. Nigerians have been supporting our businesses and this little is a way to appreciate Nigerians. This is our project and training the young ones to be leaders tomorrow is our focus,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .