 Denim style  It can be frustrating to keep up with the ever-changing trends of fashion; every season brings with it a new colour, style and silhouette. Sometimes it can make you feel like you have to throw out everything in your closet that’s looking old; so isn’t it nice when you come across an item that truly stands the test of time? Something that not only works season after season, but year after year? Behold the denim jacket. Jean jackets are true wardrobe staple and should be in every woman’s closet, no matter her size or shape. Denim jackets are great for daywear or a night on the town, casual or semi casual. They look cool with an oversized scarf and are the perfect outerwear of choice for when it’s cold. If the one in your closet hasn’t seen the light of day in a while, maybe you forgot how versatile it really is, or maybe it got buried under all the other clothes in there, now’s the time to dust it off and give it another life. How to Wear a Jean Jacket If you search for denim jackets on the Internet you’ll quickly see how many different versions are out there. Here are tricks to help you figure out which one is the right one for you. Blue Jean Jacket The most basic of them all, the blue jean jacket is every woman’s best friend. Its versatility is unmatched; available in countless washes and in all sizes, so there’s no reason every woman shouldn’t own one. Balance out the volume of a full skirt with a fitted denim jacket or toss a jean jacket over a body-con maxi dress. A blue jean jacket grounds an otherwise over-the-top color palette or perfectly offsets a black, white and red outfit White Denim Jacket If blue denim is not your thing, or if you already have one of those and want to grow your jean jacket collection, try a white version. It’s clean and crisp, and will elevate any outfit. Try using it as part of a colour-blocking strategy. If bright white is too much for you, try a printed version. White denim is slightly more polished than blue, so it plays nicely with a silky blouse and black pants. Black Denim Jacket The other end of the denim jacket spectrum is, of course, the black jean jacket. Sure, it lends a downtown-cool vibe to any outfit but it can also serve as a versatile wear-anywhere piece. Layer it over a blouse to turn leggings and a top into a real outfit. A black denim jacket is the perfect go-with for edgy black accessories. A light-wash black jean jacket makes a white tee really pop in case you didn’t know. Try a style in a vintage wash to add texture and interest to an otherwise drab outfit. Oversized Denim Jacket Even though jean jackets transcend seasonal trends, there are more fashion-forward versions out there and if you’re in the mood to experiment, try an oversized style. A longer silhouette piece is super-flattering over a body-con knee-length dress. A borrowed-from-the-boys slouchy silhouette perfectly offsets the girly vibe of a pleated skirt. An oversized denim jacket with a vintage vibe can bring your white jeans into fall. A hip-length silhouette balances the sexiness of cage heels and skin-tight jeans. An oversized denim jacket can be a fun way to play with proportion; try wearing one with wide-leg pants and platform heels Distressed Denim Jacket If a plain denim jacket doesn’t feel very “you,” maybe a distressed version would be more your speed. A ripped-all-over jacket dresses down a floor-length pleated skirt and distressed details (and a cool tee) help to perfectly balance out an ultra feminine skirt. You can never go wrong with a distressed jean jacket and black jeans. A distressed, oversized denim jacket is a double whammy, but works well to downplay super-pretty stiletto heels. Cropped Denim Jacket If you have a petite frame, or maybe oversized silhouettes simple aren’t your thing, try a cropped denim jacket. Show off your curves with a shrunken silhouette. A cropped style ensures horizontal stripes don’t overwhelm a petite frame. Accentuate long legs with a cropped denim jacket that hits at your natural waist. Sleeveless Jean Jacket A sleeveless jean jacket, or a denim vest, can be a really fun layering piece to add to your wardrobe. It’s also the perfect DIY solution for a jacket whose sleeves have gotten too short. Try a denim vest over a jumpsuit and a sleeveless denim jacket with a longer silhouette plays nice with the streamlined cut of a mini, midi or maxi dress. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .