 Senator Dino Melaye (APC – Kogi West) PHOTO: INSTAGRAM/DINO MELAYE  The lawmaker representing Kogi West, Dino Melaye, yesterday declared that the demeaning posture of President Muhammadu Buhari against the National Assembly was a bad influence that made his appointees to disrespect senate invitations.He also demanded an apology from Buhari for almost always portraying the hallowed chambers in bad light and causing disaffection between the parliament and his appointees. Melaye at plenary invoked an adopted order 14 of the upper chamber’s rule on personal privileges and, wherein expressed his disapproval and alleged that his privileges were breached.Against this backdrop, the president was also accused of making his political loyalists across the country to grow over and above the institutions of government instead of protecting and preserving the tenets of democracy. But presiding Senate President Bukola Saraki urged the lawmakers not to rush to conclusion and make contributions that might be of concern.Meanwhile, President Muhammadu Buhari’s nominee for the position of non-executive director in the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Dr. Abdu Abubakar has failed legislative screening. Senate Committee on Banking, Insurance and other Financial Institutions, which carried out the screening, said Abubakar failed integrity test and could not answer basic questions put to him during the screening. Chairman of the committee, Senator Rafiu Ibrahim, who presented a report on the screening to the Senate, said Abubakar did not have the level of honesty required for the job.The Senate, however, approved the nomination of four others as non-executive directors of the board of the apex bank. They include: Prof. Ummu Ahmed Jalingo, (North East); Professor Justina Odinakachukwu Nnabuko, (South East); Professor Mike Obadan, (South South); Abdu Abubakar, (North West) and Adeola Adetunji, (South West). In his contribution, Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, called on the committee to take a second look at the rejected nominee, saying the petition against the nominee should be scrutinised. Senate Leader, Senator Ahmad Lawan, shared the same view.To this end, the Senate urged the panel to carry out further legislative action on the rejected nominee and report back in one week.
When Senate President Bukola Saraki put the questions to voice votes, confirmation of the four appointees were unanimously accepted by lawmakers, even as the rejected nominee was referred back to the committee for further work.Saraki urged the appointees to work with the apex bank to ensure the growth of the economy. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .