 NIQS President, QS Obafemi Onashile. PHOTO: NIQS  The bill will take care and control all activities in the construction site as it concerns the quality materials use at site as well as personnel. This according to its President, Obafemi Onashile, would also cover all aspects of safety and quality in building and construction work for the public, private and government. The NIQS President spoke at the third Quantity Surveyors job fair held in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. He said, the institute sponsored the bill, stressing   that, when it is passed into law, it would mitigate the reoccurring building collapse across the country. “Building collapse can be checked and controlled if government will enact a law on safety and health in building and construction work,” he said. “That is the only way building collapse can be checked and controlled. We have put up a proposal on safety and health to the National Assembly on the need to enact law that check incessant building collapse across the country. “We have packaged the proposal and if the bill is pass into law it will cover all aspect of safety and quality in building and construction work for the public, private and government” He noted that the job fair was organised to bring together prospective employers and employees together to create a platform for the purpose of employment opportunities. The NIQS President, added that the job fair in PortHarcourt was the third in the series, noting that it is stress free and cost effective for employers to employ competent and qualified quantity surveyors through the platform He said that about 200 job seekers and 30 employers attended the job fair. Earlier, Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, represented by his Special Adviser on projects, Alagbo George Kelly, said the State government saved N10billion from various projects through prudent and effective costing. He said through effective cost analysis projects that would have cost huge sums of money are delivered at less cost. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .