 Jens Petter Kjemprud, the Ambassador of Norway to Nigeria and Dr. Chidia Maduekwe, Managing Director & Chief Ecxecutive, Nigerian Film Corporation  This renewed commitment, and several others were given when the Ambassador of Norway to Nigeria, Jens Petter Kjemprud, visited the headquarters of the Nigerian Film Corporation, Jos. Speaking at the meeting, Managing Director/Chief Executive of the Nigerian Film Corporation (NFC), Dr. Chidia Maduekwe, commended the Ambassador for the visit and assured that the NFC as the lead regulatory government film agency was desirous in creating the enabling environment for the Nigerian film industry to par with other film cultures. Dr. Maduekwe was emphatic that Nigeria has become the next frontier in terms of global creative economy. NFC, he further said, is developing a robust plan, which includes domestic and foreign linkages, that will serve as catalysts for Nigerian film practitioners to ply their profession. Maduekwe, emphasised that training and capacity building to deal with skills gap in the film sector was being addressed through the National Film Institute (NFI), and called for further partnership and exchange programmes between the National Film Institute (NFI) and the Norwegian Film Institute (NFI). Kyenprud said he was at the NFC to seek ways of partnership and collaborations for film agencies in Norway. According to him, Nigeria has a large and robust film industry with an employment of about 100 million practitioners. This to him, and in addition to the rich culture and literature of Nigeria, makes the Nollywood a brand for Nigeria. He averred that the Nigerian film industry had a duty to correct the negative portraiture of Nigeria, through the development of appropriate storylines in films. “Nigerian films must strive to breakdown these negative perception,” he said. Other decisions reached during the visit include, the participation of Norway at ZUMA film festival 2018, taking place in Abuja, December 1 to 7; the participation of Nigeria at the yearly International Business Forum held in Oslo between November and December; a joint Nigerian Film Festival to be held in Norway, yearly, and partnership between the film training institutes of both countries. The development and subsequent signing of a co-production treaty between Nigeria and Norway was also discussed. In the same vein, the film body has announced an extension date for the submission of entries for the essay competition, which was to close June 29; the date has been extended by two months. The new closing date is Friday, August 31. In a statement by corporation’s Head of Public and Inter-governmental Affairs, Brian Etuk,interested participants are given the extension to enable them forward their entries for the essay competition which attracts N250,000; N100,000 and N75,000 as cash prizes for the first, second and third best entries respectively.
 
All entries are to comply with all rules and regulations of the competition, which include, the format for submission, in Arial font, 14 font size, typewritten in double line space and, should not be more than 15 pages on A4 size paper.
 
The age of participants remain 18 years and above, but below 25 years as at December 2018. The topic of the essay competition is Projecting Nigeria’s Value as a Great Nation through Film. All entries should be through the email: essaycomp2018nfc@gmail.com.
 
Winners in the essay competition will be announced in September 2018, and presentation of certificates to participants and cash prizes will take place during the 2018 edition of ZUMA film festival schedule for December 1-7, in Abuja Nigeria.
 
Extension of time has been granted to interested participants to submit. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .