The Edo Innovates tech cluster has concluded modalities for ‘The Hack Edo Series’, a multi-dimensional initiative to identify and incubate the best ideas that tackle problems of power generation and distribution faced by individuals, businesses and the digital ecosystem, with a N3.5 million prize money. Mrs. Ukinebo Dare, senior special assistant (SSA) to the governor on Skills Development and Jobs Creation, said that The Hack Edo Series which is being organized in partnership with Impact Hub and Siemens Nigeria, will leverage innovative technology to identify solutions in the area of power generation, adding that N3.5 million in cash prizes will be won by the best ideas. She said starts-ups or groups with ideas can apply on the Edo jobs website, as deadline for application is on June 30.According to her, ‘through a series of practical Hackathons, ‘the Hack Edo series’ aims to equip young Nigerian innovators with the skills necessary to make impact in their various communities.’ She said the series will help increase the number of individuals taking action on social and economic issues, build a collaborative community that tackles issues and identify the best ideas that will be supported through the incubation phase. She said the hackathons will catalyse high-growth startups within Edo State, support development of ventures from ideation to commercialization and promote job creation and economic development, adding, “this will drive and ensure the increased adoption of local technology by government, corporates and development agencies across Edo state and Nigeria, strengthen and raise the standard of startups in the region and deliver positive social impact returns to communities and people across the region.” It would be recalled that the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, alongside Governor Godwin Obaseki, last week, launched the South-South Innovation Hub in the state, kicking off activities for the state’s fledging tech ecosystem at the remodeled Institute of Continuing Education (ICE). The state government has partnered with over 25 technology firms in setting up the facility, which will serve as a one-stop shop for training, incubation, acceleration for start-ups and Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in the state. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .