 Tincan Island. PHOTO: fivestarlogisticsltd  Josepdam, the operator of berth 1 and 2 at Tin-Can Island port complex, Lagos has experienced series of attacks at the terminal due to security lapses by the operator. The waves of attack at port terminals in recent times has become more worrisome, but other terminal operators are also providing security apparatus to secure their quays against potential attack on vessels at berth. However, the agents said the attacks might not be unconnected with insider sabotage. A group of sea robbers numbering about 20 had on March 18, gained access into Josepdam terminal through the waterfront and headed to the terminal’s fuel dump. The robbers beat up and tied the security guards at the fuel dump before they connected a hose from their standby boat to evacuate fuel from the terminal’s fuel tank. The robbers, who reportedly operated unchallenged for more than an hour, succeeded in carting away about eight drums of diesel from the terminals. Four days later and precisely on March 22, 2018, the robbers called at Josepdam again. This time, they launched an attack on a ship named MV Kiana. The ship, which was discharging its cargo of bulk sugar belonging to BUA Sugar Refinery, has Nura Shipping Limited as its agent in Nigeria. The robbers, as usual, stormed the ship using canoe, which they brought alongside the ship and gained access onboard with the aid of a rope tied to a hook. Meanwhile, investigations showed that there was insider compromise from staff of the terminal operator who colluded with sea robbers to attack the terminal. President-General of the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN), Comrade Adewale Adeyanju, confirmed that some members of staff of the terminal were complicit on the attacks successfully carried out on the terminal. Adeyanju however disclosed that the compromised staff (name withheld) have however being sacked by the management of Josepdam. He said, “Some of the staff of Josepdam that were involved in this issue have been sacked. The boys came to me and I told them they are on their own if you are involved they should face their music. No union will encourage that type of things,” Port Facilities Security Officer, Josepdam, Sylvanus Nwanna, said “Our security apparatus in in line Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) and International Ships and Ports Security (ISPS) code standards” He declined to comment further. Some clearing agents who bemoaned the incessant attack said failure of Josep‎dam to secure its quay led to attacks on the terminal leading to loss of confidence by agents and importers. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .