President Muhammadu Buhari / AFP PHOTO / SAUL LOEB • Says talks’ll continue
President Muhammadu Buhari’s decision not to meet with the aggrieved members of the New Peoples Democratic Party, (nPDP) that left to join forces with the All Progressives Congress (APC) to dislodge the PDP in 2015 elections was to show respect to the APC, a top presidential source has said. The source yesterday also claimed that President Buhari wanted the due process to be followed as the Vice President and the party hierarchy were handling the matter and were expected to brief him at the end of the day. Meanwhile, the source said that talk with the aggrieved group will continue, adding that the decision of the President not to interfere for now did not mean that he had snubbed them or ruled out the possibility of meeting with them at the end. The members of the nPDP who appeared to have lost out in the sharing equation in the APC have recently given an ultimatum to the ruling party to address their grievances or they will quit the party. But despite the meeting the group held with the Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo and the APC National Chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, none of their grievances has been attended to even as the members lost out in the recent wards, local government and state congresses. They were assured of meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari to address their problems and then be accommodated in the sharing of positions and appointments, but all to no avail as the President appears to have given less concern to their demands. But a top Presidency source last night explained that the decision of President Buhari not to meet with the aggrieved nPDP members which has the likes of the Senate President, Bukola Saraki, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, Senators and some members of the House of Representatives among others was to show respect for the party, and State Governors who the President believes are party leaders in their various states. According to the source who pleaded not to be mentioned, “A process has begun, with the party talking to those feeling estranged. The meeting has risen to the level of the Vice President. This is expected to continue. “At the culmination of these meetings, the President will obviously be briefed. “Before that point is reached, the President will not meddle or interfere. “He is staying above it all, not arising from arrogance or snubbing anyone. The President expects that the due process should be observed in all situations and that is what he is doing.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .