Osita Okechukwu • Oshiomhole okays June 12 as Democracy Day 
The Director General, Voice of Nigeria (VON), Mr. Osita Okechukwu, has said President Muhammadu Buhari, by his proclamation, has announced the results of the annulled June 12, 1993 elections and declared Generals Ibrahim Babaginda and Olusegun Obasanjo as enemies of democracy. Okechukwu, who spoke to journalists during a festival in his Eke hometown in Enugu State at the weekend, faulted the call by the Senate for the declaration of the results, saying the profound proclamation was the result declaration awaited for 25 years. On the claim by renowned jurist, Justice Belgore that the President violated the law, Okechukwu said a renowned legal luminary, Femi Falana (SAN), also read sections of the law and said the president did not violate it Meanwhile, former Edo State governor, Adams Oshiomole, has lauded the decision to declare June 12 as Democracy Day. He faulted the idea of celebrating the day on May 29 which was the date former President Olusegun Obasanjo was sworn in for his first term in office in 1999. Oshiomhole, an All Progressives Congress (APC) national chairmanship aspirant, told reporters at the opening of his campaign headquarters in Abuja,
that the June 12, 1993 when former military president, Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida, annulled the freest and fairest presidential election widely believed to have been won by the late Chief Moshood Abiola ought to have been set aside as the date to celebrate democracy. The former governor commended President Buhari for the decision to also confer a posthumous award on the late human rights activist, Chief Gani Fawehinmi, noting it would serve as an inspiration to future generation of Nigerians to push for a fair and just society. “We should salute the president for his statesmanship. There are many things he has done over the past three years that are outstanding. His bold decision to acknowledge that June 12 cannot be wished away should be commended. “He deserves commendation across party divides because, for the 14 million people who voted, the annulment was a huge shock and serious pain. So, for Buhari to acknowledge Abiola in the manner that he did and confer on him posthumously an award meant for people who are presidents mean that he has settled the question,” Oshiomhole said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .