 Joint Health Sectors Union (JOHESU)  The Guardian gathered that a letter signed by the National Chairman of JOHESU, Josiah Biobelemoye, and the  National Secretary, Florence Ekpebor, has requested the director-general of the Department of State Security to prevail on the Federal Ministry of Health to pay the April and May salaries to its members to douse the tension at the work place and sustain the industrial peace that has returned. JOHESU that declared strike recently, suspended the action after some interventions, including that of the director-general of the DSS and court ruling on 30th May, 2018 which was instituted at the National Industrial Court. The court ordered the parties to resolve the issues through processes of its mediation/conciliation of the alternative dispute resolution. The court ordered that no party should in the course of the negotiation do anything that will jeopardise the peace at the work place JOHESU argued that a circular issued on the 5th of June, 2018 after the process of the mediation/conciliation has been ordered and commenced was a clear breach and violation of the order of the court by the ministry of health. Read More: Nigerian health workers end strike: union “We decided to honour the court but the FMOH and minister are still disregarding their own obligations to reach amicable settlement. “The dictate of the circular smacks of complete bad faith on the part of the Minister of Health and over reaching of all the efforts so far taken by all the parties towards the suspension of the strike and amicable settlement of the dispute. “They further argued that the letter of the Federal Ministry of Health is nothing short of a deliberate attempt to further stoke the fire of dispute and re-ignite the already existing crisis, to put the nation into chaos and crisis.” Meanwhile, the Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN) has said it would strive to maintain industrial peace in the country, urging Nigerians to learn to imbibe and cultivate the virtues of love, hard work and honesty that will help build the nation. The senior oil workers lamented the worsening insecurity in parts of the country and high level of poverty across the land, urging Nigerians to pray for God’s guidance to lead the country towards total economic recovery and steady growth. President of PENGASSAN, Comrade Francis Olabode Johnson, in his eid-el-fitri message, urged Nigerians to allow the lessons of Ramadan, which are peace, sacrifice and tolerance, to reflect in their conduct with fellow Nigerians at all times. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .