 Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed (right); Lagos State governor, Akinwunmi Ambode; Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture, Steve Ayorinde and Secretary-General, United Nations World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO), Zurab Pololikashvili, during a courtesy visit by the delegates of the 61st meeting of UNWTO and African Tourism Ministers to the governor in Lagos… yesterday.  Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode yesterday assured that the Imota Rice Mill in Ikorodu, expected to be completed next year January, would begin operation in March.Ambode, who gave the assurance when he visited the Imota Light Industrial Park, housing the rice mill, said the industry light park, the commodity market and all the infrastructure efforts are geared towards making Ikorodu an industrial hub. He stated that his administration is committed to making every part of Lagos economically viable in a comfortable way.Besides, the Commissioner for Agriculture, Toyin Suarau, said when the industrial park becomes operational, 250,000 jobs would be created through direct and indirect employment. Meanwhile, the Secretary-General of the United Nations World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO), Mr. Zurab Pololikashvili, said Lagos would play a pivotal role in the organisation’s quest to promote new tourism destinations across the world. Pololikashvili, who made this known when he led a high-powered delegation, consisting of eight ministers of tourism and representatives from 44 countries across Africa, on a courtesy visit to Ambode, said the technical visit to the state, as part of the activities for the just-concluded 61st UNWTO/CAF meeting in Abuja, was a pointer to the role Lagos would play in developing tourism in the continent. The UNWTO scribe, who described the visit to Lagos as the best part of the meeting, said: “We are here to promote new tourism destinations. You can count on us, thanks to you, to promote this fantastic place. Thanks for receiving us and be rest assured that Lagos will be one of the most important parts of our strategy branding.” Ambode, who stated he is committed to anything that would integrate and bind African countries together to promote development, especially because Africa is the next story, said the massive investment in infrastructural renewal by his administration was a well thought-out strategy to position Lagos as a tourism hub. He said his administration was not unmindful of the massive economic benefits yet untapped from the tourism sector, adding that conscious efforts are being made to maximise the potentials for the benefit of the people. Ambode said the technical visit by the delegation was auspicious, as it would provide an avenue for top players in the tourism sector from the across the continent to rub minds and forge a common course towards making Africa the choice destination for tourists across the world. In his remarks, Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, thanked the governor Ambode for his support towards the hosting of the 61st UNWTO/CAF meeting in Nigeria, saying that it was largely responsible for the success of the event.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .