(From L to R) Senegal’s forward Sadio Mane, goalkeeper Khadim N’Diaye, defender Moussa Wague, midfielder Papa Alioune Ndiaye, defender Youssouf Sabaly, defender Kalidou Koulibaly, defender Salif Sane, midfielder Alfred N’Diaye, midfielder Idrissa Gana Gueye, forward Ismaila Sarr and forward Mbaye Niang sing the national anthem before the Russia 2018 World Cup Group H football match between Japan and Senegal at the Ekaterinburg Arena in Ekaterinburg on June 24, 2018. / AFP PHOTO / HECTOR RETAMAL 90+5 mins: Final Whistle! The African side is out, while  Colombia tops the group 90+4 mins:  Poland have beaten Japan 1-0. 90+1 mins: Into stoppage time, They’ve played excellently in almost all respects today, but haven’t really created anything. Which is the most important. 90 mins: Senegal still trying hard to get a goal to claim at least a point from the game. 89 mins: Borja came in for Falcao who walked slowly off the field. 88 mins: Colombia still keeps pressurizing the African side. Falcao going off now. 86 mins: Niang is off, and Sakho is on 83 mins: Lerma can in for Uribe strolling slowly off. 79 min: Ismaila with a chance but he volleys high over the goal. A cross came in from the right but Ismaila just failed to bury the chance. If things remain the dame way, Senegal are out. And so all African tams. 75 min: GOAL! COLOMBIA! MINA heads the South Americans ahead. Senegal 0-1 Colombia 72 min: Colombia work the ball wide and Cuardrado wriggles on the right to get a cross in. Keita Balde defends well stopping the cross from getting in. 67 min: Could have been Colombia ahead had Falcao cleanly connected to the corner kick with his head. It hits his shoulder instead and the ball bobs wide. 63 min: Embarrassing slip by Mane as he skies the free kick from a dangerous position. 60 min: Niang wastes an attacking moving with a poor pass trying to find Mane in the box. You get the feel if both teams can just calm down a bit, they’d be creating better chances and perhaps, we’d get a goal. 55 min: A bit end to end now. As Gueye wins the ball in the Colombian half but passes the ball out for a goal kick. 50 min: Niang receives a yellow card and will miss the next match. The striker kicked Mina in the stomach inadvertently . Second half begins HALF TIME: Senegal 0-0 Colombia 45 +3 min: Colombia tries to lay a final assault on the Senegal box but it comes to nothing as the Valderrama takes his leave. 44 min: Johan Mojica tackles blistering Sarr and the referee whistles for a foul showing Mojica a yellow card. 39 min: The quality of final balls from the Senegalese side has been lacking as Ismaila Sarr hits a poor cross into the box. 37 min: Niang and Sane stand over a freekick. Niang tees Sane up for the shot but the defender hits the underside of the ball and gets far too much elevation on the ball than he’d like. According to the stats, Colombia enjoying the larger share of possession with 58% to Senegal’s 42% 30 min: Substitution James Rodriguez goes off with an injury trouble for Luis Muriel. Rodriguez heads straight fro the dressing room. 27 min: Two chances in quick succession for Senegal. One from the left and the other from the right. Keita’s shot lacked power and bend on it to trouble Colombia while Sarr’s shot was straight at the goalkeeper. 25 min: Colombia trying to advance with neat combinations but Rodriguez is brought down cynically by Gueye. Quintero floats the resulting ree kick onto the head of Falcao. El Tigre couldn’t keep his header down. Things looking more positive for COlombia after Senegal looked the better side in the opening of the half. 18 min: No penalty! Now it’s adjudged a brilliant recovery tackle by Sanchez on Mane who was through on goal. 16 min: PENALTY or not?!!! VAR time. Davinson Sanchez tackles Sadio Mane in the box and Mane falls under the challenge. 11 min: Kalidou Koulibaly fouls Falcao about 30 yards from goal. Quintero takes the free kick and it draws a finse save from goalkeeper Ndiaye. HAd the goalkeeper not been alert, Colombia could have been celebrating their first goal. 7 min: Arias brings down Keita Balde, who is startting his first game in the World Cup after Senegal try to build rhythm and play. The free kick is floated in but Ospina easily plucks the ball out of the air. Kick off: Senegal gets the game underway. They remain the only African side left with a chance of qualification to the second round in the competition after Egypt, Morocco and Nigeria have already been eliminated with Tunisia effectively without a chance of qualification with a game left to play. Here’s how the teams line up Senegal: Khadim N’Diaye, Gassama, Sane, Koulibaly, Sabaly, Sarr, Kouyate, Gueye, Mane, Balde, Niang. Subs: Diallo, Mbengue, Mbodji, Sow, Diouf, N’Doye, Alfred N’Diaye, Konate, Sakho, Ndiaye, Wague, Gomis.
Colombia: Ospina, Arias, Davinson Sanchez, Mina, Mojica, Uribe, Carlos Sanchez, Cuadrado, Quintero, Rodriguez, Falcao. Subs:Vargas, Zapata, Murillo, Barrios, Bacca, Muriel, Lerma, Diaz, Borja, Izquierdo, Cuadrado.
Referee: Milorad Mazic (Serbia). Welcome to the live blog of the fixture between Senegal and Colombia To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .