Eagles’ Victor Moses jubilates after scoring against the Argentines in the final group D match at St Petersburg Stadium, Russia…on Tuesday. The joy was, however, cut short after Marcos Rojo’s goal won it for Argentina. PHOTO: FEMI ADEBESIN-KUTI During the Eagles versus La Albiceleste match, a lot of passengers were left stranded at various bus stops, as commercial drivers joined millions of other Nigerians to watch the epic encounter. Narrating his ordeal, a passenger, Bodu Adeleyo, reported of an heavy traffic on the Third Mainland Bridge at about 4pm on his way home from the Island. According to him, when he got to Oshodi, he noticed there were very few buses available for commuters as many were left hopeless, thinking on how to get to their various homes. “I have been waiting here for an hour now and I am going to Sango Otta,” he said. This scenario was quite different from what obtained along Oshodi-Apapa Expressway, where more buses plied the road with few passengers. When The Guardian asked one of the drivers why the low passengers, he said most likely because of the World Cup game between Nigeria and Argentina. He, however, said, “this is usually the situation when the Eagles are playing a match, the turnout of passengers is always low.” At a viewing centre in Abesan Estate, Ipaja prior to the match, many fans were optimistic that Nigeria would win the game and stay further in the tournament ahead of the Argentines. The mood was a happy one with great expectation from the Super Eagles. However, everything changed when Eagles succumbed to the pressure and determination of the Lionel Messi-led La Albiceleste. Immediately Messi scored, there was a silence, however, hope came alive when Eagles equalised through a Victor Moses penalty kick, which he coolly converted and resuscitated Nigeria’s faith in the Eagles to make it to the Round of 16. But silence returned after Marcos Rojo sealed the win for the Argentines with less than 10 minutes to the end of the game.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .