Ibrahim Idris Security agencies deploy personnel in states for hitch-free Sallah
The Inspector-General (IG) of Police, Mr. Ibrahim Idris, has approved the National Human Rights Commission’s (NHRC) request to begin an independent audit of detention cells in all police commands and formations in Nigeria. The audit would also include all detention cells of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). According to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), Head, Public Complaints Rapid Response Unit (PCRRU), Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Abayomi Shogunle, who disclosed this in a statement yesterday in Abuja, said the audit would enable the NHRC oversee the human rights situation of detainees as well as undertake general audit of the state of police detention facilities (cells) in the country. Also, according to NAN, the National Commandant, Peace Corps of Nigeria (PCN), Mr. Dickson Akoh, has appealed to the IG to unseal the headquarters of the corps in Jabi, Abuja. Akoh, who said this at a news conference in Abuja yesterday, also urged stakeholders in the security sector to implore the police boss to obey the rule of law. In another development, the IGP has directed Zonal Assistant Inspectors-General of Police and Commissioners of Police in charge of zones and state commands nationwide to beef up security and ensure massive deployment of police personnel to all praying grounds and other venues of celebration throughout the country to prevent crime and ensure hitch-free Sallah celebration. In a statement by Police Public Relations Officer, Jimoh Moshood, the operation will cover recreation centres, public places and critical infrastructure and public utilities. In Borno State, the police have deployed 5,000 personnel for a hitch-free Sallah celebration with three days show of force in Maiduguri metropolis. Police Commissioner, Damian Chukwu, who disclosed this at a news conference held at the Police Headquarters, Maiduguri, said: “The “show of force” commences today in Maiduguri metropolis and on Thursday and Friday to protect people’s lives and property during the celebration.” In Lagos State, police formations are expected to embark on a show of force between 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on Thursday to demonstrate the command’s crime-fighting ability ahead of the Eid-el-Fitri celebration. The state Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal, who ordered the operation, said it was to assure residents of adequate security during and after the Sallah holidays. In a similar vein, Ogun State Sector Command of the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) has deployed 1,000 personnel, comprising regular and special marshals to oversee traffic activities on highways in the state. In a statement signed by the State Sector Commander, Clement Oladele, the special patrol operations, which commenced from yesterday (Wednesday) to Monday, June 18, 2018, will focus on excessive speed, dangerous driving and other offences. He urged motorists to contact FRSC toll-free No. 122, 08150646550 and 08023832594 in case of crash or obstruction. Also in Jigawa, the FRSC has deployed 284 personnel and two ambulances to ensure safety on the roads across the state during the Eid-el-Fitri celebration. The FRSC Sector Commander in the state, Mr. Angus Ibezim, told NAN in Dutse yesterday that the personnel deployed comprised 50 officers, 210 marshals and 25 special marshals. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) has deployed 45,000 personnel nationwide to ensure a secured and peaceful celebration.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .