An attempt to kidnap a Deputy Comptroller of Customs, her younger brother and her son was thwarted on Saturday by police detectives attached to Area-D- Police Command, Mushin, Lagos. Lagos State police spokesman, Chike Oti said acting under the directive of the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Edgal Imohimi, the Area D Commander, Olasoji, an assistant commissioner of police (ACP) quickly assembled a decoy team which played along with a caller who had been calling Barrister Yisa Theophilus, the   younger brother of the female Customs officer. The police team ran a quick check on the caller based on available information and came to a conclusion that he was up to something sinister. “The team found out that aside from being a notorious criminal in the area, the caller, later discovered to be one Yomi Odudare, was into land selling. So the detectives called him to meet with them for a land deal and he agreed. “On Saturday, being the day they  agreed to meet, the detectives went along with the younger brother of the female officer Yisa Theophilus whom he had been calling frequently. They met the suspect at a project site in Ajah, Lagos, called Fara-park and he was promptly arrested. “During a brief interrogation at the scene of the arrest, the suspect confessed that he has never met the lawyer nor any member of his family. “He, however, said that the idea to kidnap Bar Yisa, his sister and her son came from one Olugbenga Kehinde Ojo, a former driver to the deputy comptroller’s uncle. He added that the idea was to kidnap the lawyer and force him to lure out his sister. “To make his story believable, he put a call to the said Olugbenga Kehinde Ojo. He told him to meet up with him, that he had successfully kidnapped the lawyer. “He was happy and so he rushed to the venue, straight into the waiting arms of police detectives investigating the case. “Both suspects took the police to a shanty, surrounded by water, situate in Eleko, along Lekki/Epe Expressway, Lagos, which they prepared as a hostage ground for their would-be victims. “It was the agreement of both suspects that in order to avoid the mistakes of the notorious kidnapper, Evans, the moment any of their potential victims sights Olugbenga Ojo, a former employee of the Deputy Comptroller’s uncle, that person must be killed because they all know him.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .