 Ayodele Fayose  Governor Ayo Fayose of Ekiti State has again raised the alarm over the alleged sale of yet to be collected 200,000 Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) ahead of the July 14 poll.He has also given a week ultimatum to the Head of Service, Dr. Gbenga Faseluka, to distribute letters to over 46,000 civil servants recently promoted on May Day. The affected workers include those with pending promotions from 2015, 2016 and 2017.
 
The governor, who disclosed these during an interactive session with journalists, yesterday, at the new Governor’s Office in Ado Ekiti, also hinted that employment of 2000 youths in Ekiti would soon kick off.
 
Urging all electorates in the state to urgently collect their PVCs to prevent moves by the opposition to disenfranchise them, the governor alleged that he has information from reliable sources that the PVCs were being sold to people from outside Ekiti for use in the forthcoming election. Fayose said: “What we have found is that the PVCs are being purchased, to give to people not from Ekiti, to be part of this poll, and they will buy them cleverly and give to people to use on July 14.“We know politicians; they would use it even if it would not work. We are calling on INEC to nip this in the bud. Uncollected PVCs are about 200,000 in the state and we want INEC to see to it that they are not given to the wrong people in Ikere-Ekiti, Ado-Ekiti and along our borders in the state.
 
“INEC is starting the advanced smart cards process in Ekiti for the first time. When it is configured, card readers are only to authenticate that it belongs to INEC, not the one carrying the PVC “What is important to us is to raise the alarm that INEC ensures that the cards don’t go to wrong hands. Nigerians are smart enough to manipulate things to go their way. So, INEC should not allow anyone to buy the cards from them.”On the promotion letters, he said: “You will recall that we promoted about 46,000 workers and I have told the HOs, that all workers must get the notice of their promotion in the next one week. No delay, we give our word because the workers deserve to be appreciated for being the engine room of government.”
     
However, INEC has said it is not possible to swap the smart cards. The national commissioner in charge of Ekiti, Oyo and Osun States, Prince Adedeji Soyebi, said: “No one can vote for anybody by proxy, because we will test the fingerprints.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .