 Court  Chineye made the statement while responding to a divorce suit filed by Charles Okolie, her husband of 11 years, that she was lazy. “My first daughter caught my 23-year-old brother-in-law, Emeka, who is living with us, raping my second daughter;  she shouted and
I rushed to their room to know what was happening. “I met Emeka naked with his sex organ erect, I saw sperm and I cried. My daughter told me that was not his first time of doing it. “I took her to the hospital and it was confirmed that she had been sexually abused. “When my husband returned from work, I told him what happened and also showed him the medical report, he begged me not to
tell their parents and that I should keep it secret. “But he did not scold or discipline him,” she told the court. The mother of two also accused her husband of infidelity and that he had infected her with diseases. “My husband cheats on me a lot, he once impregnated a girl who had a set of twins (boys). “He also married another woman last year without my knowledge and he packed out of our house last January and
he is still living with the woman.” The respondent said that her husband used to attack her with some dangerous weapons whenever they were fighting. “There was a day he beat me and that resulted in a miscarriage.” Chineye urged the court to grant her husband’s wish for the dissolution of the marriage, adding “I don’t love him any longer.” The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Okolie had approached the court seeking to terminate his marriage on the grounds
of laziness, sex starvation and lack of care. The 52-year-old trader told the court that his wife had starved him of sex. “Chineye locks her room when I want to make love to her.”’ The petitioner said that Chineye had threatened to kill  or poison him and marry another man. “She once threatened to break my head with a pestle, but I managed to escape.” “She quarrelled with my parents, abused them by calling them names such as illiterate and bastard.” He urged the court to end the marriage and that he was no longer interested. Okolie also demanded the custody of the children to enable him to take them to his village to stay with his parents. The court’s President, Mr Akin Akinniyi, urged the couple to maintain peace and adjourned the case until Aug. 9 for
judgment.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .