 Ekiti State governor Ayodele Fayose  Governor Ayodele Fayose has vowed to defeat the federal might of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to win the poll.The governor, who made the declaration at the 23rd Convocation of Ekiti State University (EKSU) in Ado-Ekiti, which he attended as visitor, explained that he had succeeded in giving Ekiti the party’s candidate, Prof. Kolapo Olusola, who is a scholar. He described Olusola as a “level-headed, humble man, a pastor and man of God,” who Ekiti people needs at this critical point of its history.The governor credited Olusola with the “giant strides recorded by the state in the field of education,” especially its coming tops back-to-back in the National Examinations Council (NECO) among the 36 states of the federation. He said there was the need for continuity of policies and projects, which are being carried out by his administration.He said: “People will always remember that it was Fayose who constructed the first dual carriageway, as well as the first flyover in Ado-Ekiti.” The governor explained that it was during his time that Ekiti State quit number 35th position in WAEC and NECO, and came first, back-to-back in NECO. He added: “We did all these within the limited resources available to us. We have the people’s strength behind us, since power not only belongs to God, but also that God is with me.” Also, Fayose, who yesterday congratulated the Adams Oshiomhole-led APC, urged the presidency to be prepared for defeat.The governor, who stated this through his Chief Press Secretary, Idowu Adelusi in Ado-Ekiti yesterday, said the defeat would be a shocker to the presidency.He spoke in reaction to the quit notice given by the presidency to his party, during the APC’s national convention in Abuja at the weekend. Meanwhile, a group loyal to the Director General of the Kayode Fayemi campaign organisation, Michael Opeyemi Bamidele, has launched an aggressive evangelism campaign to mosques and churches.The group, under the aegis of MOB Progressive Youth Vanguard (MPYV), said it took the strategic step to boost the APC’s campaigns. Led by its Coordinator, Ahmed Salami and Director of Operations, Isiaka Adedipe, they campaigned in some communities in the area, including Odo-Iro, a farmstead in Iyin Ekiti.
Adedipe said the group embarked on the campaign to fill the vacuum left by their principal, Bamidele.He added that the strategy was aimed at drawing the attention of Ekiti people to the evil inherent in allowing Fayose to plant his successor.According to him the independent-minded position of the Ekiti people led to the Kiriji War of 1877 and 1886, which it fought with the Ajeles from Ibadan in Oyo State. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .