Former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar • APC govt is ungodly, says Turaki
• President’s supporters seek national assessment for ruling party
• Kaduna PDP endorses Makarfi for presidential race The Atiku Abubakar Campaign Organisation has asked Nigerians to vote out President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019, alleging that his government has brought severe pains on the people of the country. National Co-ordinator of the group, Dr. Fresh Onuoha, who stated this during the inauguration of Enugu State Chapter of the “Atiku is the answer campaign organisation 2019”, said Buhari’s government had failed in every sector. He said: “Human lives are no longer respected as people now kill anyhow in the guise of herdsmen while the government watches without a solution. Every voice of opposition is being sidelined. There are agitations by various groups all over the country. Nigerians now commit suicide anyhow because of poverty and want of what to do. “There is serious hunger and starvation in the land. Every sector of the country is complaining and crying and unless we rout out this government, we will continue in penury and hunger. I urge Nigerians to vote out Buhari and vote in Atiku Abubakar in 2019 for a better country and restoration of sanity to human life.” In a related vein, a presidential aspirant on the platform of the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Kabiru Tanimu Turaki, has accused the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) of ungodliness. Turaki, a former Minister for Special Duties in the administration of former President Goodluck Jonathan, who spoke while addressing newsmen yesterday in Abuja on his presidential ambition, said the APC government had destroyed everything from the economy to a strong political structure which the PDP handed over to it in 2015. He said the current leadership of the country is ungodly for insisting that it would not release Nigerians whom the courts have freed. Turaki, who chided the administration for its gross incapacity to protect citizens from marauding killers, said if given the opportunity, he would lead the country into progress and development from its present state of quandary and loss of confidence by many Nigerians. Meanwhile, the Buhari Support Organisation (BSO), Enugu State, has appealed to the newly-elected National Chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole, to carefully set up an assessment committee to go round the country for critical updates on the strengths and weaknesses of the party. It said the assignment of the proposed committee would put in the picture the true approval rating of APC in the country. The pro-Buhari group said this yesterday in a congratulatory message to the newly-elected National Executive Committee (NEC) signed by the State Secretary, Mr. Godwin Onwusi. The support group advised Oshiomhole not to work on hearsay, especially in the South-East “where some pretenders with no electoral value are parading only their family members and cronies for political offices.” In another development, the immediate past caretaker committee chairman of the PDP, Senator Ahmed Makarfi, has been endorsed by the Kaduna State Chapter of the party upon declaring his interest to contest for Presidency. Makarfi, who was at the party’s state secretariat to make his interest known, said he had to begin at home by intimating with his immediate constituency while seeking for their support and prayers. He said politics of religion and ethnicity must give way to merit-based politics as the country approaches 2019.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .