 Chieftains of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Tolu Ibitola, Ayo Adeyemi, Deputy Governorship Candidate, Bisi Egbeyemi, Governorship Candidate, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, and Chairman APC in Ekiti State, Jide Awe, during a speech by one of the beneficiaries of the social security scheme for the elderly citizens, instituted by Fayemi’s administration, at a campaign in Usi-Ekiti  He said Fayemi, who canvassed the position yesterday in a telephone interview with an Abuja-based radio station, allegedly said herdsmen’s killings would only stop, if they are given land for permanent settlement. Adebayo claimed that Fayemi entered into an agreement to create cattle colonies in Orin-Ora, Aramoko, Omuo, Otun, Ise and Erifun, in Ado-Ekiti, describing the plot as sad and strange. He warned that: “An inch of Ekiti land would not be given to the herdsmen as cattle colonies, to avoid creating an inroad for their invasion of the state.” According to the PDP chieftain, Fayemi made the call while reacting to yetserday’s killing of over 200 people in Plateau State, in reaction to yesterdays’s herdsmen’s killing of over 200 people in Plateau State. “States having issues with Fulani herdsmen can only solve the problems permanently by giving land to the herdsmen, where they could even have an Emir. “That is why I have maintained that I will create cattle colonies in Ekiti State, if I become governor. It is better to give your land to Fulani herdsmen and live, than for them to kill you as they did in Plateau State yesterday,” he allegedly declared. Adebayo stressed that: “It was strange that Fayemi did not condemn herdsmen’s killings in Oke Ako, Orin, Okemesi, Aiyede, Ipao and other places in Ekiti State. The PDP added that the position was also to replicate the stance of Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akerdolu, who did not also condemn the herdsmen’s invasion of Olu Falae’s farmland a few months ago. But the Kayode Fayemi Campaign Organisation debunked the allegation in a statement by its Director of Media and Publicity, Wole Olujobi. He said it was a repeat of an online statement traced to Fayose’s media aides. According to him: “The false story of Fayemi talking about creating cattle colonies in Ekiti State was first published online about a month ago. “It was discovered to have been orchestrated by Fayose’s media aides, who published it on a cloned website of an online publication. He stressed that Fayemi is noted for the protection of lives and property, as shown during his four years in office. The spokesman said there was harmonious relationship between “indigenous and non-indigenous population and zero tolerance for farms’ destruction during Fayemi’s tenure. He accused Fayose of destroying the resources provided by Fayemi for security forces to protect farming communities, particularly in Iyemero and Oke Ako axis. Meanwhile, Special Assistants and Senior Special Assistants led by their chairman, Dr. Femi Akinola, have rallied support for the ex-governor.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .