 International Chamber of Commerce Nigeria  According to him, it is a widely held view that the private sector is the engine of growth and poverty reduction, as well as one of the most powerful catalysts for the transformation of the economic structure of countries. “Businesses thrive when supported with well-conceived regulatory policies and good corporate governance practices in line with global best practices. Corporate governance, to me, is all about how an organisation is managed- its corporate and other structures, its culture, its policies, and the ways in which it deals with its various stakeholders. “It is concerned with structures and processes for decision making and with the control and behavior that support effective accountability for performance outcomes/results”, he added. On the future outlook, Savage said the global economic growth prospects have improved modestly due to stronger United States’ growth expectations, exit of some large economies from recession and rising commodity prices.
 
According to him, with the sustained recovery in oil prices, strengthening commodity prices, rising aggregate demand, rebound in investment as a result of improvements in investor’s confidence and accommodative monetary policy, which confronted the global economy in 2017, there were signs of moderate growth and improvement. “We would expect increased diffusion effects of oil sector growth in 2018, through budgets and government spending; oil sector procurement, wage and CSR growth and oil sector support for the external sector. “With the gradual recovery from recession, stability in exchange rates, inflation under control, we certainly have reasons to be optimistic. Oil prices have surged to $60-70pb beyond 2017 expectations, offering Nigeria some respite and suggesting a better economic outlook in 2018. Adopting the highest standards of corporate governance to achieve long-term value for all is now imperative”, he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .