 Director-General, Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation, Mr. Folorunsho Coker (left); Chairman/CEO, Solutions Media and Infotech Ltd, Prince Adeyanju Lipide and Alake of Egba, Adedotun Aremu Gbadebo III at the recent commissioning of Hi-Impact TV  The launch last week of the TV station was yet another addition to Hi-Impact Planet Amusement Park and Resort, a Solutions Media and Infotech company. The company’s Managing Director, Prince Adeyeloye Lipide, gave insight into the pioneering innovations that the theme park continues to make. He commended his brother and Chairman/CEO, Prince Adeyanju Lipide, for always dreaming up new ideas and additions to the Hi-Impact family of exciting projects. He gave hints that a radio station was in the offing among Hi-Impact Planet’s offering. He said the vision for Hi-Impact TV started early this year, noting that he was happy it had come to fruition within a short time. “It’s the first full High Definition (HD) TV in Nigeria,” he said. “The programmes are designed mostly for students preparing to write exams. Our effort will compliment whatever the students have been taught. It’s a new and exciting world of TV viewing in Nigeria.” The launch event had an array of celebrities and royal presence in attendance. They included Alake of Egba, Adedotun Aremu Gbadebo III and his royal entourage, Director-General, Nigerian Tourism Development Corporation (NTDC), Mr. Folorunsho Coker, Prof. Segun Awonusi, Mr. Lampe Omoyele, Nollywood folks – Clarion Chukwurah Byod, Sam Boyo, Shola Shobowale, Franca Brown, and a host of others. Sales Manager of U.K.-based Viewsat, the satellite system on which Hi-Impact TV is domiciled, Mr. Joseph Ejiogu, said Hi-Impact TV has made a wise choice in settling for a credible satellite platform, saying Viewsat is the biggest free-to-air satellite cable TV in the U.K. He expressed happiness at the partnership, saying it was an eye-opener. Advertising guru, Mr. Lampe Omoyele, explained the full import of HD TV to the select audience, when he said, “This is the first full HD TV in Nigeria. It is able to provide high-level resolution of pictures and offers much better picture quality than Standard Definition (SD) that is common in the Nigerian TV space. This is auspicious milestone in the TV viewing experience of Nigerians. The advertising industry will be better for it in terms of the impact it will have on viewers and in influencing consumer behaviour and habits.” Assistant General Manager, Corporate, Victoria Odimba, also gave insight into the new TV station that is family friendly in its programming. She said until now TV viewing was what could be termed a distraction. But with the coming of Hi-Impact TV, the story would be different, saying, “It’s HD transmission and edutainment to give something different in your home. TV experience mustn’t only be about music and movies, but something educational, with high quality teachers in your subject areas.” Odimba said the content on Hi-Impact TV would be in English, Yoruba, French and German, saying, “We’re replicating the excellence of Solutions Media and Infotech that we have perfected in the United Arab Emirates and the U.K.” Represented by Mr. Coker, Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, commended Hi-Impact family for the huge investment, saying, “Today’s launch is a testament to the strength of your dedication, the expertise of your team, and the will of everyone involved in the project.”Osinbajo also praised the new TV station for its focus on entertainment and the family and noted, “The owners of this project show a deep understanding of the role of entertainment in nation building and I’m convinced that this project will revolutionise entertainment and education.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .