Poised to appreciate God for the good governance, mutual love and peaceful co- existence being enjoyed, particularly among people of different tribes, cultures and religions resident in Lagos State under the Governor Akinwunmi Ambode led administration, a Non Governmental Organisation, Jubilee Concept International, is organising a marathon gospel musical concert, tagged Jubilee Praise. Speaking about the concert, the coordinator of the group, Adegboyega Taiwo, said the 12–hour non-stop concert, which is aimed at bringing Lagosians from all walks of life together to appreciate God for his kindness and mercies over the state in the last three years of the present administration, will feature the A-list and upcoming artistes in the state. He noted that in spite of the general economic meltdown in the country, Lagos state has continued to wax stronger in revenue generation, making its urban renewal and rapid infrastructure transformation projects feasible everywhere in the state. According to him, despite that the state accommodates virtually all the nationalities of the world and representatives of different tribes, it has enjoyed relative peace and mutual harmony among its residents, making the business of governance to be impactful and uninterrupted. In his words, “Jubilee Concept International is pleased with a lot of achievements that the Akinwunmi Ambode administration has recorded in the areas of security, peaceful co existence, urban renewal and infrastructural developments, transportation, sustainable economic growth, tourism and hospitality, and many more.” “The free musical concert that will feature about 28 different Artists is in appreciation of God’s kindness in providing Governor Akinwunmi Ambode led administration leadership skills and vision that have made the state the economic hub of Africa and the country’s destination for tourism, culture and hospitality,” he added. Speaking further, Adegboyega explained that this year’s concert, which is scheduled to hold on Saturday, June 9, at the All Seasons Events Plaza, Agidingbi, Ikeja, would be the second of its series as the group had last year during the Lagos at 50 celebration staged the first concert, with Governor Ambode and his wife, Bolanle in attendance as special guests of honour. He also explained the concert is the brain child of the wife of the governor, who conceptualized the idea as a way of bringing people together to praise God for good governance and harmony in the state, stressing that it was a necessary support for the present administration so as to achieve more in giving dividends of democracy to the people. Adegboyega commended the governor for his choice of an all-inclusive government, which he noted has created enabling environment for youths to develop and maximize their potentials in the implementation of government policies. The 12–hour praise concert, which will kick start from 9am and end at 9pm, will have in attendance Governor Ambode, his wife, Bolanle; Committee of the Wives of the Lagos State Officials, (COWLSO), members of the Federal House Representatives and the State House of Assembly, top government officials, captains of industries among others.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .