 Ekiti Deputy Governor , Prof. Kolapo Olusola  The campaign organisation of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)’s governorship candidate in Ekiti State, Prof. Kolapo Olusola Eleka, has accused the All Progressives Congress (APC) of buying Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs). The Director of Media and Publicity of Kolapo Olusola Campaign Organisation, Lere Olayinka, disclosed this in a statement yesterday.He called for greater vigilance against agents of the opposition party. The organisation said it was alarmed at the report of arrest of one Miss Ogunyemi Temitope in this regard. Temitope was allegedly arrested at Aiyede Ekiti yesterday, when she collected over 30 PVCs and the account number of unsuspecting electorate.He said: “Temitope and her accomplices were taken to the palace of the Attah of Aiyede Ekiti, Oba Abdumumini Orisagbemi, from where they were moved to the police station. He revealed that Temitope promised the card owners that N28, 000 would be paid to their accounts.He explained: “Some of the cards already collected belonged to Adebiyi Adekunle, with a UBA Account number 2077932145, Omotoso Abiodun, Ajayi Taiwo Amos, and Bamidele Funmilayo. Others were Fayose Mary, Ojo Emmanuel Kehinde, Irewole Yinka Motun, Olowokere Titilayo, and Ojo Bamidele Oluwaseun. “It should be noted that we have earlier raised the alarm over a Form being distributed by the APC under the guise of Ekiti Development Front.”He said the Form, which is purportedly meant for empowerment, is to prevent thousands of electorate from voting on July 14, 2018 election. Also in Ekiti, the candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP, Akinloye Ayegbusi, has denied the allegation that the outgoing Governor Ayodele Fayose is sponsoring him.The Director General, Akinloye Ayegbusi Campaign Organisation, Yemi Akinbode, said this in a statement. The SDP candidate described his alleged sponsorship as an insult not only to himself, but also to the generality of the Ekiti people who earnestly yearn for a genuine change.He said such allegation was the handiwork of opposition who are jittery about his rising profile. Meanwhile, Governor Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo State has declared that the national chairmanship of the APC is not reserved for the former Edo State Governor, Adams Oshiomhole.He said his endorsement by President Muhammadu Buhari does not foreclose that a level-playing field would be provided for other aspirants.The 24-member Progressives Governors Forum, led by Rochas Okorocha, had also endorsed Oshiomole, who is reaching out to chieftains of the party across the country. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .