Russia 2018 Super Eagles squad. Photo: Twitter/NGSuperEagles The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) on Monday assured that the Super Eagles would give their best as they tackle Argentina in their last group D match in the FIFA World in Cup Saint Petersburg on Tuesday. NFF Director of Communications, Ademola Olajire stated this in a statement in Lagos, saying that beating Argentina would guarantee a second round berth for the Eagles at the mundial in Russia. Olajire said the technical crew led by Franco-German tactician; Gernot Rohr is putting all strategies together to ensure the best formation against Argentina. “Long before the contingent arrived in Saint Petersburg on Sunday, technical chiefs concerned themselves principally on what will be the best formation. “They hope to establish an impregnable defense, a resilient and coherent midfield and a lethal front section that would make hay from half chances. “There is belief that first choice goalkeeper Francis Uzoho is growing in confidence and will do his utmost, but the outfield is where Coach Rohr and assistants are presented with interesting choice. “They are keeping playing personnel and formation close to their chests,’’ he said. Olajire added: “The 67,000 capacity Zenit Arena is located on a piece of land reclaimed from the sea, in the Krestovsky Ostrov (Krestovsky Island) district of Saint Petersburg. “Behind the magnificent facility is a vast stretch of water that leads to the Gulf of Finland. “Argentina has won two FIFA World Cup title and finished as runners-up on two occasions before Nigeria made her debut at the finals in 1994. “This will amount to much when Turkish referee Cuneyt Cakir’s whistle goes for kick-off on Tuesday night.’’ “The Argentines are in desperate situation following a score-draw in their first game against Iceland and comprehensive defeat by Croatia, and will throw everything at their disposal at the Eagles. “The African flag bearers are not a team to be easily brow-beaten, and have adopted an ‘Argentina Must Fall’ motto since flaying Iceland in Volgogr “The 0-3 reverse to Croatia in Nizhny Novgorod on Thursday was the heaviest World Cup group stage defeat suffered by Argentina since they were annihilated 6-1 by then Czechoslovakia in Helsinborg (Sweden) 60 years ago. “Expectedly, Tuesday’s encounter is poised as the biggest occasion for their array of superstars in recent years.’’  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .