With the World Cup excitements and fever now in its second week, we have seen lots of attention-grabbing goals, intriguing skills and heart-breaking moments. However,  there’s more to the football fest apart from skills, goals and the trophy. Part of the thrill is derived from the different player’s tattoos. A lot of football players have got inked to mark the 2018 World cup on their bodies forever. Some have always have used their bodies as canvasses for tattoo artists. Besides showing off their skills, these colourful tattoos are also on display. With five time world best player, Cristiano Ronaldo the only high profile name without any body art, there are a number of players at the 2018 World Cup in Russia with inked bodies including England winger Raheem Sterling who even faced backlash after revealing a new leg tattoo – an image of automatic rifle –  before the World Cup showdown. Here, a look at the players with the most striking tattoos. Switzerland’s midfielder Steven Zuber attends a training session on June 14, 2018 at Torpedo Stadium in Tolyatti also know as Togliatti, ahead of the Russia 2018 World Cup football tournament. / AFP PHOTO / Fabrice COFFRINI  Iceland’s midfielder Arnor Traustason, bearing a tattoo of his parents and sibling, speaks to the media before a training session at Olimp Stadium in Kabardinka on June 14, 2018, ahead of the Russia 2018 World Cup football tournament. / AFP PHOTO / Jonathan NACKSTRAND  The tattooed arm of Iceland’s defender Ari Skulason is pictured before a football training session at Olimp Stadium in Kabardinka on June 14, 2018, ahead of the Russia 2018 World Cup football tournament. / AFP PHOTO / Jonathan NACKSTRAND  Iran’s midfielder Ashkan Dejagah celebrates at the end of the Russia 2018 World Cup Group B football match between Morocco and Iran at the Saint Petersburg Stadium in Saint Petersburg on June 15, 2018. / AFP PHOTO / CHRISTOPHE SIMON  Spain’s defender Sergio Ramos applauds before the Russia 2018 World Cup Group B football match between Portugal and Spain at the Fisht Stadium in Sochi on June 15, 2018. / AFP PHOTO / PIERRE-PHILIPPE MARCOU /  Peru’s forward Paolo Guerrero reacts after failing to score during the Russia 2018 World Cup Group C football match between Peru and Denmark at the Mordovia Arena in Saransk on June 16, 2018. / AFP PHOTO / Filippo MONTEFORTE / RESTRICTED TO EDITORIAL USE – NO MOBILE PUSH ALERTS/DOWNLOADS  Iceland’s midfielder Aron Gunnarsson speaks to members of the media after a training session at Olimp Stadium in Kabardinka on June 17, 2018, during the Russia 2018 World Cup football tournament. / AFP PHOTO / Jonathan NACKSTRAND  Serbia’s defender Aleksandar Kolarov celebrates his team’s victory in the Russia 2018 World Cup Group E football match between Costa Rica and Serbia at the Samara Arena in Samara on June 17, 2018. Kolarov’s brilliant second-half free-kick gave Serbia a 1-0 victory over Costa Rica in their opening World Cup group match in Samara. / AFP PHOTO / MANAN VATSYAYANA  Brazil’s forward Neymar reacts before the Russia 2018 World Cup Group E football match between Brazil and Switzerland at the Rostov Arena in Rostov-On-Don on June 17, 2018. / AFP PHOTO / Pascal GUYOT  Argentina’s forward Lionel Messi (L) and defender Nicolas Otamendi stretch during a training session at the team’s base camp in Bronnitsy, near Moscow, on June 19, 2018, during the Russia 2018 World Cup football tournament. / AFP PHOTO / JUAN MABROMATA  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .