Nyesom Wike Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, said he has uncovered a sinister scheme by the Federal Government to frame him up for gunrunning using a Lebanese businessman. Wike who had recently accused the All Progressives Congress (APC) led Federal Government of plotting to assassinate him, said that the Lebanese businessman would claim he had received money from him to procure arms for the 2019 elections. The governor revealed this during a thanksgiving service at the St. Thomas Anglican Church, Diobu, Port Harcourt yesterday, in honour of the Chairman of Rivers State Local Government Service Commission, Azubuike Nmerukini, who survived a major surgery. Wike told the congregation that ahead of the 2019 general elections; the Federal Government has become so desperate that it had devised a devious method where it believes that framing opponents will enhance its political fortunes. He pointed out that Nigerians had initially thought he was playing politics with the series of allegations against the Federal Government until former President Olusegun Obasanjo revealed details of how the government intends to frame him up. “I am not close to any Lebanese, let alone give money to anyone to buy arms for elections. We have dutifully served our people and we don’t need to purchase arms for elections. If elections are held 20, 000 times, we will win because our projects have positively impacted the lives of our people, “ he said. Wike also alleged that the same government was planning to sponsor crisis in Rivers State ahead of the 2019 elections, for the state’s election to be postponed. According to him, the purpose of this scheme was to have a high concentration of security agencies in the state during election for rigging purposes. “They plan to cause so much crisis in the state so that Rivers election is held on a separate date. Their plot will fail,” said Wike. The governor blamed most of the kidnappings and armed robbery incidents on Rivers State Special Anti Robbery Squad (SARS) operatives under the leadership of Akin Fakorede. According to him, the arrest and detention of two SARS operatives in the state attest to their involvement in criminality against the people of the state. The State Police Command spokesperson, Nnamdi Omoni, told The Guardian that he was not aware of the arrest of the orderly of the SARS commander and another personnel. He promised to revert to The Guardian but had not at press time. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .