Ejaiz                                                                                                                                                                     Jimoh After months of scouting the 36 states of the federation, South Africa based record label talent management outfit, Daffang Entertainment has found and unveiled two new talents in Nigeria. The acts, Jimoh Wasiu, a songwriter and record producer, and Ejiro, a pop artiste popularly known as Ejaiz, were unveiled in Ikeja Lagos for the world entertainment market.Speaking at unveiling, Chief Executive Officer, ClapStiik Entertainment and representative of Daffang Entertainment in Nigeria, Ibrahim Kabiru stated that the talent management company had over 500 people that auditioned for its talents hunt, which cut across the 36 states in Nigeria last year. According to Ibrahim, Wasiu and Ejaiz were selected from the large pool of talents based on the fact that they possessed the requisite talents that the Daffang Entertainment seeks to unveil to the world, adding that are they proved themselves as confirmed leaders in the music space.He said, “As a talent discovery outfit, we went round the 36 states of the federation in search of the best of talents, and it is amazing to know that in course of sojourning, we had over 500 talents. But due to some constraints, we are unveiling these two acts for now — Jimoh Wasiu, a songwriter and record producer, and Ejiro popularly known in Warri as Ejaiz to the world.” “We are thrilled to welcome them to Daffang Entertainment family. They have all it takes to develop and become superstars in the African music scene, and will be game-changers in dominating and bringing African music to the world. We are extremely excited to have them as a part of the team and eager for the journey ahead,” he added. For Wasiu, an Ajegunle based act, Daffeng Entertainment has everything an artiste want to progress, particularly good management. “I believe with the management structure and style in place at the outfit I can go anywhere with them.” Asked what he is bringing to the industry, he said, “I’m bringing good songs,” stressing that the songs that currently pervade the industry are not appealing but appalling. “So I’m bringing into the industry good melodies,” he stated. On his part, Warri based singer, Ejaiz explained that his joining of Daffang Entertainment is based on the premise that everything is being done in a family-like way.“At Daffang Entertainment, we do things together like a family; we work together, and that is what prompted me to join them. I believe with the company, we will push the further the frontiers of afrobeat to the world,” he said.Buttressing the point, Ibrahim explained that there is an evolution in the music industry, stressing that we all grew up listening to good music, but globally there is a change. “We all grew up listening to good sounds but some of those artistes that churned out those good sound are no longer giving us such sounds. As a talent management company, what we do is to have an artiste that would last over long period of time. A number of people started with 2Face Idibia but they are no longer relevant in the industry,” stated. 