 Dr. Kayode Fayemi<br />  Ekiti State Governor, Ayodele Fayose has alleged plot by the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Kayode Fayemi, to implicate him with murder.He said the plot, which is also targeted at some leaders of the party, was hatched at a meeting in Isan-Ekiti, Fayemi’s hometown. According to him, a certain thug popularly called Agbara was assigned to carry out the sinister plot.Fayoses said: “They hired Agbara to kill one or two indigenes of Ekiti and dump their bodies in the houses of PDP leaders, Fajuyi Park, in Ado Ekiti, or near the government house. The attempt is to link my party and I with killings.He urged the Federal Government and the security agencies to intervene in the threat to peaceful election. “Your life and my life will not be used as sacrifice for this election,” he told Ekiti people.Fayose warned the APC not to use politics to disrupt the peace that the state has enjoyed in the last three and half years. But, the spokesperson for the Kayode Fayemi campaign organisation, Wole Olujobi accused Fayose of raising false alarm.Olujobi alleged that Fayose had raised similar alarm on August 12, 2006, which came to pass two days later when one Dr. Ayo Dramola was assassinated.He added that he Supreme Court had ruled that Fayose has a case to answer in the late Daramola’s murder. Fayose has also announced the suspension of PDP’s campaign for three days, in honour of Bamidele and others who were injured in the gunshot.He said the prayers were necessary irrespective of their political differences. Meanwhile, a chieftain of the APC, Mr. Tayo Adebiyi, has clarified that the policeman who fired the shot that injured Bamidele and others at a rally in Ekiti on Friday, was not a hired assassin.He described what happened as an accident, which was not premeditated against any person. The Director General of the Tayo Adebiyi campaign organisation, Mr. David Ayeni told newsmen in Ado-Ekiti that Adebiyi hired the police officer because of the wave of recent killings and kidnappings in Ekiti.
 
Adebiyi is an aspirant for the House of Representatives in Oye/Ikole Ekiti Federal Constituency.The Guardian leant the injured Bamidele had been flown to an undisclosed hospital in Lagos for treatment. In a related development, the governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Akinloye Ayegbusi has named Mrs. Mary Yemisi Adetayo Adefolalu as his deputy governorship candidate in the July 14 poll. While warning against politics of bloodletting, he credited Adefolalu’s choice on her vast experience as a civil administrator and seasoned accountant.The Director General of his campaign organisation, Yemi Akinbode said this in a statement. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .