 Director of Action aid Nigeria, Ene Obi  It decried the seeming absence of neutrality, professionalism and sharing of intelligence among security apparatuses, saying the move was deteriorating security in the country. Addressing the media on the state of the nation yesterday in Abuja, the Board Chair of Action Aid, Professor Patricia Donli, challenged security agencies on impartiality, professionalism, training and intelligence to upscale the nation’s security architecture. Her words: “There appears to be lack of synergy among security forces in the country. The security situation in Nigeria has continued to deteriorate as a result of perceived lack of neutrality, and professionalism on the part of security agencies as well as a lack of synergy in operations and sharing of intelligence. This has resulted in the state of insecurity that has manifested in diverse forms across the country.” She condemned the “serious violations of human rights, especially extra-judicial killings involving security agencies, groups and individuals across the country, buttressed by several local and international reports on the state of human rights in Nigeria despite being a democratic polity founded on the ideals of constitutionalism and the rule of law.” The organisation expressed concern over the lack of mutual cooperation between the executive and legislature arms amid the fact that both are controlled by one political party, adding that the absence of cooperation was undermining good governance and service delivery. Action Aid said the Nigerian government must be seen using its position as a regional power to defend the security of citizens in and outside the shores of the country. It, however, expressed concern over the credibility of the upcoming 2019 elections, fearing that it may be marred by needless ethnic religious and regional mobilisation in the face of the role of money, reliance on violence and lack of respect for the rules of the game by political parties, candidates and gladiators. Saying it was manifesting in inflammatory statements, grandstanding and personal interest of members of the political class, Action Aid called on all stakeholders to play politics with respect to the rules of the game, discourage violence and use of money to influence the electorate. It also called on the Federal Government to ensure the speedy release of the last Dapchi girl, Leah Shuaibu, and the remaining Chibok girls. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .