 Scene of the building collapse  Ogunseye said that the rate of building collapse had reduced to a great extent, but noted that more efforts needed to be made until a zero per cent building collapse was attained.According to him, it is not until a building collapse, before provision will be made for remedies, preventive measures and solutions are required. “It is not until a building collapses, we start shedding tears. We need to sit up and continuously push for proactive measures to ensure zero cent per building collapse.“Currently, the incidence of building collapse has reduced to the barest minimum but BCPG will not relent in its advocacy and efforts towards attaining a zero per cent building collapse in Lagos State,” he said in a report by the News Agency of Nigeria. The Coordinator of Ikoyi-Obalande Cell of BCPG, Mr Tomi Ogundare, a Quantity Surveyor said government should do more with its efforts to completely prevent collapse of building in the state.Ogundare, while delivering the welcome address, said the government, contractors, profsssionals and the public must obey the building regulations if the issue of collapse would be tackled. Mr. Samson Akinyosoye, Secretary of the Nigerian Institute of Architects (NIA), Lagos State Chapter, said that the quality of materials and workmanship needed to be given adequate attention to avert collapse.Speaking on the topic: “Proactive Measures for Building Collapse Prevention”, Akinyosoye said that three components of a building must be functional for a building to be confirmed as structurally stable. He identified the three components as the structure, fabrics and the system.According to him, if a component of a building is not functioning, such a building is bound to deteriorate and collapse. “Collapse occurs when a building can no longer support loads. So, it is not until a building physically falls down that it can be classified as been collapsed,” Akinyosoye said.He urged BCPG to persist on its advocacy for the use of quality building materials, saying investigations had revealed that sub-standard building materials were a major cause of building collapse. Akinyosoye further identified excessive load, design error, poor maintenance culture and structural phenomenon as other causative factors of building collapse that need to be addressed. Also, Mrs Adenike Ayanda, a former Chairman of the Nigerian Institute of Quantity Surveyors (NIQS), Lagos State Chapter said that the Guild could organise training programmes for building artisans.Ayanda said the artisans needed to be carried along by upgrading their competencies because they executed greater part of the building construction works. “It is unfortunate that Nigerian building artisans cannot compete with the artisans from neighbouring countries like Cote dÍvoire or Republic of Benin.“Since BCPG advocates sanity in the built environment by promoting acceptable building standards through public awareness, it can integrate the artisans into the system to train and upgrade their skills,” she said. Meanwhile, the Financial Secretary,  Nigerian Institute of Building (NIOB), Lagos State Chapter, Mubarak Gbajabiamila, has identified responsive procurement system as a proactive step to be adopted in combating building collapse. Speaking on the topic: “Preventing building collapse through responsive procurement system,” Gbajabiamila said that the quality of materials used in construction of a building to a great extent determines its structural stability. According to him, it is more economical to apply the best quality of building materials irrespective of its costs, than to use the cheap ones and spend extra money for replacement.He noted that inferior/sub-standard material was a major causative factor of building collapse, stressing that it must be given adequate attention by the governments, professionals and the clients if the issue of building collapse would be curtailed. “A building constructed with sub-standard materials stands the risk of collapse. Therefore, It is not advisable to apply the cheapest building materials and spend much money for repair and replacement, while endangering lives and properties at the occurrence of collapse,” Gbajabiamila said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .