Fathers have a special place in our hearts, from teaching little things to giving their wisdom for life’s lessons. Their love wraps the family like a cocoon. Father’s Day does not have as much hype as Mother’s Day and has no universal set date. There are also a lot of traditions set by families in different countries. Here are some Father’s Day traditions around the world: Eine fröhliche Männerrunde feiert am Donnerstag (17.05.2012) in Magdeburg den Herrentag. Bei freundlichem Wetter zogen die Männer durch die Straßen und Parks, um an ihrem Festtag ein kühles Bier zu genießen. Foto: Andreas Lander dpa/lah +++(c) dpa – Bildfunk+++ In Germany, Father’s Day is celebrated on the 6th Sunday after Easter. On this day, men set out to do “manly” things like biking, hiking and drinking with other men. They go out and enjoy themselves, while the women stay home with the children. This can set a theme for a Father’s Day gift. Set and spend the day with your dad by participating in outdoor thrilling activities. Or you can hang out with your father and spend and enjoy his company the whole day. Just ensure that dear daddy is well relaxed and taking a break from the stress of life. Thailand’s revered King Bhumibol Aduljadej waves to well-wishers on his 60th anniversary of being on the throne in Bangkok June 9, 2006. REUTERS/Royal Palace/Handout (THAILAND) Thailand celebrates Father’s Day on December 5, the birthday of King Bhumibol Adulyadej who is considered the father of the nation. It is a tradition to wear yellow on this day and present canna flowers and other various gifts to fathers. Borrow a leaf from this tradition and buy a nice bouquet of yellow flowers for your father. You can also buy flowers that he can plant in the garden. Or get him a nice shirt in a cool shade of yellow. Father and sons in Mexico. Photo Stockphoto Mexico celebrates Father’s Day on the 3rd Sunday of June with dad’s favourite meals and Pan Dulce, a sweet bread served as a dessert. The fathers participate in a city-wide 21-kilometre race that takes place in Mexico City’s Bosque de Tlalpan, an open-space area used for hiking and jogging. This is a perfect example! Instead of giving a gift that you are not sure he will like, give him that freedom of choice. Ask him what he really wants to do and give him a treat. Japanese father and son. Photo Rawpixel Flowers are an essential part of Father’s Day celebration in Japan. Children also give their dads handmade beer glasses and Japanese candies or a box of Japanese sweets. Their meal on that day is seafood-based. Japanese fathers enjoy gifts of perfume as well. You can key into this tradition. But instead of buying perfumes, you can buy a beautiful piece of handcrafted artwork. Or use this perfect opportunity to take your father to a fancy restaurant that serves the perfect seafood. Well-prepared fish pepper soup will be nice as well. Father and Son in Nepal. Photo Thread Publishing In Nepal, children perform a ceremony in which boys touch their heads to their father’s feet and girls touch their heads to their father’s hands. This is an opportunity to praise and thank fathers for all their love and influence. Throw in nostalgic stories to show how much you appreciate all they have done. For women who want to celebrate their partners, you can make videos of fun times or a digital picture album.