 Lagos House of Assembly  It is so sad that the legislative arm of government is being dishonoured and disregarded by rejecting its invitation as well as the stealing of mace.
   
“We must remember that legislature is the basis of democracy. Without legislature there will be no check and balances let alone the separation of power. So, I call on you all to rise up and protect legislature to defend our democracy.”
   
The Speaker also urged media professionals and CSOs to join hands in the promotion and sustenance of democracy describing them as watchdogs who checkmate the activities of the government on issues that are detrimental to the welfare of the people.
   
“Through constant advocacy, government lobbying and regular public engagements, they have been bridging the gap between elected officials and the electorate.
   
“Likewise, it has been proven beyond reasonable doubt that informed citizens are the foundation for a strong democracy. As such, the Nigerian Press has been sensitizing the public through timely circulation of information on the activities, policies, and plans of the government on one hand; and the rights and responsibilities of citizens on the other hand,” he added.
   
Recounting the achievements of the House in the last one year, Obasa disclosed that the Assembly has passed a total of nine bills into laws while 45 resolutions have been made.  In the same vein, the need to commence public sensitization on the importance of preserving sites, monument, and locations of historical relevance in the state, necessitated the call to the Commissioner for Education to include studies of our cultural heritage in the school curriculum in Lagos State.”
   
He however agreed that no meaningful development could take place in an unsafe environment and called for urgent upgrade of all fire service stations in the state with modern firefighting trucks, service equipment and personnel.
   
“This will enable the Agency combat fire incidents with a view to preventing loss of lives and property in the State during fire or flood disaster.”
   
He added that in spite of the challenges confronted, the members of the 8th Assembly have remained undaunted and resilient in the legislation of bills for the enhancement of the growth and development of the state and for the fostering of the total wellbeing of the people.
 
“It is expedient for us to present our score card for necessary appraisal by the electorate and for the purpose of setting the records straight. We are mindful of the huge responsibilities invested in us, as well as the expectations of the electorate; and we are glad to give account of our activities at the Lagos House of Assembly in the year that just rolled by as we have been doing since the beginning of this administration.
   
“We firmly believe that the legislature, and indeed the Lagos House of Assembly, as one of the major institutions in a democratic system, has a critical role to play in promoting fair governance. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .