Today marks the birthday of dance star Kafayat Oluwatoyin Shafau-Ameh, popularly known as Kaffy. Kaffy is eager to see what the future holds for her as a dancer. Speaking with Guardian Life, the dance entrepreneur says: “Next phase for me is to expand the opportunities that dance can provide and enlighten the general public and private and public sectors that this is a bankable industry you can invest in and the services are broad. I am here to expose that and say having a dance company can function side by side and create a lot of job opportunities. I want to be a proud mother of a son who says he’s a dancer and is still able to afford the luxuries of life and take care of his family. That comes by expanding the vision and creating a sustainable environment with the art of dance and the creative industry.” Kaffy. Photo: Jerrie Rotimi for Guardian Life Her husband, Pappy J, also wished her a happy birthday via his Instagram page. He described her as a role model who “God must have spent time creating”. He wrote: “Happy birthday to my babisnubicop…wow where do I start? I thank God every day for u because u are one of a kind,a rare breed,a superwoman.God must have spent time creating u cos ur type no many… This is after blessing me with two beautiful kids u still looking like sweet 16…God will continue to give you grace and glory and your dreams would be accomplished…happy birthday Is awa befday  today…happy befday my darling love…I cannot celebrate you enough..A role-model not by mouth but by actions,this generation is lucky to have and the world better get ready for your outburst…I pray for long life (with me)and prosperity…hip hip hip hurray” Happy birthday to my babisnubicop…wow where do I start? I thank God everyday for u because u are one of a kind,a rare breed,a superwoman.God must have spent time creating u cos ur type no many… @kaffydance A post shared by  #TRENDING *Papii J* (@papiijameh) on Jun 29, 2018 at 4:36pm PDT  This is after blessing me with two beautiful kids u still looking like sweet 16…God will continue to give you grace and glory and your dreams would be accomplished…happy birthday  @kaffydance A post shared by  #TRENDING *Papii J* (@papiijameh) on Jun 29, 2018 at 4:40pm PDT  This is after blessing me with two beautiful kids u still looking like sweet 16…God will continue to give you grace and glory and your dreams would be accomplished…happy birthday  @kaffydance A post shared by  #TRENDING *Papii J* (@papiijameh) on Jun 29, 2018 at 4:40pm PDT  Happy birthday, Kaffy! Read More: Kaffy Talks About Her Early Experience With Dance