Member, Not Too Young To Run Movement (NTYTRM) Strategic Team, Miss Bella-Anne Ndubuisi (left); Convener, Samson Itodo; Sponsor of the Bill at the House of Representatives,<br />Tony Nwulu and Maryam Laushi during a press conference on the signing into law of the Age Reduction Bill, in Abuja … yesterday PHOTO: NAN Ahead of next year’s general elections, the Not Too Young To Run (NTYTR) movement has enjoined registered political parties in the country to reserve at least 50 per cent of party tickets for youths to vie for elective positions. Spokesperson of the movement, Samson Itodo, who spoke to journalists in Abuja, yesterday, argued that the demand was based on the fact that youths between the age range of 18 and 35 years constitute about 52 per cent of registered voters in the country. Itodo, who acknowledged that the assent to the Not Too Young To Run Bill by President Muhammadu Buhari was not sufficient to guarantee youth representation in political office, noted that political parties that abide by the demand stand the chance of making inroads at the polls if they gain the support of the youths. While calling on political parties to uphold the principles of transparency, democracy and accountability in their primaries, the group urged the National Assembly to expedite action on electoral reform bills bordering on limiting campaign expenditure and cost of securing party nomination. The movement further urged the National Assembly to review its vote on the age qualification for the senate and governors to be in tandem with the proposal by the movement (President- 30 years, Governor- 30 years and Senate- 30 years). The Bill, as assented by the President, reduced the age qualification for the office of the President from 40 to 35; House of Representatives from 30 to 25 and State House of Assembly from 30 to 25. The age qualification for Governor and Senate was retained at 35 years, which the movement described as unfortunate and disappointing. It noted: “The 2019 elections present an opportunity for young people to assert their power, not only as voters or campaign merchants, but also as qualified electoral candidates. “The movement is, therefore, committed to inspiring and supporting more youth candidates with content and character to run for office through its Ready To Run initiative and other interventions aimed at promoting youth candidacy in the next elections.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .