Ekiti Assembly Fayose sacks two board members
The Ekiti State House of Assembly has suspended its Chief Whip, Mr. Sunday Akinniyi, who is representing Ikere Constituency 2, for allegedly sleeping at plenary sessions. A statement signed by the Chairman, House Committee on Information, Dr. Samuel Omotoso, yesterday in Ado-Ekiti, said the House suspended Akinniyi over series of allegations levelled against him, chief among which is his sleeping habit. Omotosho said that the decision followed a thorough investigation carried out by Ayodele Fajemilehin-led committee of the Assembly. He said Akinniyi was accused few weeks ago of “breeding terrorism and violence towards the mace in a properly constituted plenary session, belligerence attitude and acts of bellicosity against his colleagues and pugnacious behaviours in his constituency against his own people, all amounting to gross misconduct and unbecoming of any honourable member of this House. “The suspended honourable member was also regularly absenting himself, especially when issues relating to his constituency is slated for discussion. Despite complaints of negligence from his people, he remained adamant.” “The few occasions he presented himself for official duties in the House, Akinniyi is in the habit of sleeping from the beginning of any programme to the end to the extent that he was nicknamed ‘the sleeping honourable.’ “Several attempts by the Speaker advising him to pay attention to his people and his health has been rebuffed with insults. “It is in reference to all these that this House viewed the failure of Akinniyi as incompatible with the spirit of good governance and quality representation of the present House of Assembly and he is hereby suspended indefinitely,” he said. He also advised that while on suspension, Akinniyi should pay more attention to his health and use the period of his suspension to come out of his embarrassing sleeping syndrome by sleeping at home rather than chasing shadows. In another development, the state governor, Mr. Ayodele Fayose, has sacked two members of the board of the state Teaching Service Commission, Chief Gabriel Falayi and Chairman, Governing Council of the College of Education, Ikere-Ekiti, Prof. Babajide Alo. The sack takes immediate effect. Secretary to Ekiti State Government, Modupe Alade, in a statement to newsmen yesterday, announced the development. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .