•  Ibediro floors Izunaso
• Eneukwu, Moghalu, Abdullahi retain seats
It was tragedy as three All Progressives Congress (APC) delegates from Kano State died in an accident on Kano-Zaria road on their way to the party’s national convention in Abuja at the weekend.One of the victims and a councilor representing Diso Ward in Gwale Local Government area, Abdulwahab Inuwa Diso, and two others, Abdullahi Lawal Idris and Alhaji Abubakar were said to have left Kano early Saturday morning to join other APC members in Abuja for the convention. The Guardian gathered that the accident occurred when the SUV conveying the deceased had a flat tyre on top speed, leading to multiple somersault of the vehicle which eventually caught fire. The three occupants were said to have been burnt beyond recognition. It was learnt that Diso just returned a few days from Saudi Arabia where he had gone for Lesser Hajj during the Ramadan.Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has condoled with the families of the deceased party members. In a statement by the Commissioner for Information, Muhammad Garba, Governor Ganduje said: “The deceased were genuine and loyal members of our great party whose immense contributions in forging peace and  unity among its members and development of the party at the grassroots will continue to be remembered.” Meanwhile, former minister of sports,  Malam Bolaji Abdullahi, has been re-elected as the national publicity secretary of the APC in the convention.Also, the National Vice Chairman, South East, Mr. Emma Eneukwu and the National Auditor, Chief George Moghalu, retained their seats after stiff contest with their rivals. However, the  position of the national organising secretary hitherto occupied by Senator Osita Izunaso was won by Mr. Emma Ibediro, a protégé of Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State. The position of the National Vice Chairman, South South, was also retained by Chief  Hilliard Eta, just as that of the National Vice Chairman North West was retained by Mr. Inuwa Abdulkadir.Former House of Representatives member, Mr. Adamu Fanda, won the position of national treasurer hitherto occupied by Alhaji Bala Gwagwarwa,  a close ally of Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, former Kano State governor.The position of national women leader formerly occupied by Hajia Tomato Tijani has been won by Hajia Salamatu Umar Eluma, a key ally of Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .