 computer village  The company said the Lagos Katangowa ICT Business Park plans to provide a world class technology incubation platform to give entrepreneurs and businesses the opportunity to create value in development of technology software and hardware development. Recall that the Lagos State government concessioned the Katangowa ICT Business Park, located along the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway to Bridgeways Global Projects Ltd, for development of the ICT Business Park, as part of its plan to relocate the Computer Village Ikeja to a more befitting and purpose-built location. Speaking on the grand plan for the ICT Park, Chief Executive Officer of Bridgeways Global Projects Limited, Jimmy Onyemenam said: “What we are developing in Katangowa will elevate the status of Lagos as a global technology location. It is far beyond providing real estate for the development of another Computer Village.” He added: “The Katangowa ICT Business Park will also provide the infrastructure to incubate and accelerate the development of technology solutions that can improve development outcomes on the African continent. “Within the technology developer community, we have found an abundance of curiosity, innate talent and passion in Nigeria. These developers can do with more infrastructure support to develop more solutions that are development-relevant especially in the areas of Education, Health and Agriculture.” Onyemena also noted that the Katangowa ICT Business Park will also provide infrastructure for the manufacturing of technology hardware. According to him, “Thanks to the visionary outlook of the current Lagos State government, under the leadership of Akinwumi Ambode, the Katangowa ICT Business Park will also have the capacity to support the manufacturing of technology hardware like Computers, mobile phones, solar panels, health technology equipment, to mention a few. “The ICT Business Park will also put Nigeria on the global call-centre value industry, which is expected to reach $9.7 billion in 2019, as we will be making provision for infrastructure that can support the delivery of globally competitive call-centre services.” The Katangowa ICT Business Park is proposed to be developed on a 15.7 hectares parcel of land. When completed, the ICT Business Park will comprise of over 3000 retail outlets of assorted sizes, a 4000-capacity k-klamps mall, 5,000 sitter exhibition hall and ICT incubator complex, assemblage/warehouses, and office accommodation. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .