 Rashidi Ladoja  The former Governor, while congratulating Muslims on the successful completion of the 1439H Ramadan fast, urged the faithful and Nigerians to be their brother”s keepers and be of good behaviour the way it was exhibited during the one month fast.Ladoja, while assuring residents of the state that the PDP has array of competent governorship aspirants to take the state to the promised land, however vowed to leave the party if what he described as impunity continued in the party. The former Governor said “Muslims should be their brother’s keepers, they should be of good behaviour as they did during the last 30 days of good behaviour.“I am one of the leaders in the state and South West, the position of the party is in the paper today. There was a congress I voluntarily decided to join PDP. We are not being paid salary. “But if impunity continues, there is no need for me to stay there. There is no way that a congress held will be set aside. The stakeholders will together decide on what next.Ladoja while speaking on the recent honour of GCFR giving to late Chief Mosood Kasimawo Olawale Abiola, the  winner of the June 12 1993 Presidential election and recognition of the election by President Muhammadu Buhari, said it was a good move if the intension to do that is not politically motivated. “If is is not politically motivated, it is good but if it is politically motivated, that is mess. It is worthless. I don’t want to get involved in the Battle of the Generals.Ladoja while speaking further urged Governor Abiola Ajimobi of the state to pay the outstanding salaries of workers whose salaries have not been paid. He said, “The only thing I can remember is that some people took the government to court. During Ibarapa rally, we were told that some people have not been paid. “There are many people in our party that can take the state to the promised land. Anybody in the state can become Governor of the state. You see, Oke-Ogun people can’t make themselves Governor alone, so it is very important that they they work together with others. I believe when the time comes, the negotiation will take place. It is not the issue of it is our turn, it is the question of acceptability”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .