 Chief Adebayo Adelabu  The News  Agency of Nigeria(NAN) reports that Adelabu made the declaration at the  APC Secretariat in Ibadan after paying a visit to his family compound  and  APC stalwarts  in his local government. NAN also  reports that Adelabu, is a grandson of  late Alhaji Adegoke Adelabu, Nigeria’s first Minister of Social Services and Natural Resources  popularly known as ‘Penkelemesi.’ Adelabu hinged his intent to contest  on his passion for the progress of the state and  the happiness of the people. “It is my belief  that talents, knowledge, training and experience are  nothing if  these are  not put into achievements and the direction of human progress,” he said. The governorship  aspirant also  stated that he was committed to  building on the achievements  of  Gov. Abiola Ajimobi, “Ajimobi’s  era has re-awakened a renaissance and rebirth. It is essential for subsequent leaders to build upon the solid foundations already laid to avoid putting such efforts in vain. “It is on this ground that I present myself today to be of service to humanity through my desire to contest for the highest political office in Oyo State,” he said. He unveiled his agenda termed,  ‘The Next Level, ‘ which he stated was to build on the successes of the current administration and take the state to greater heights. Adelabu said his administration would work from a pyramid of development, with much emphasis on the people’s economic prosperity, technology,  industrialisation as well as revenue generation. The governorship aspirant said  the pyramid of development would be driven by enablers, noting that  many manifestos crumble because their foundations were not deeply rooted in enablers. Adelabu also  described the  feud between some aggrieved members and the party as that between  a couple, expressing optimism that it  would soon  be resolved. “The governor and the party are seriously working on reconciling the aggrieved members and hopefully the crisis would be resolved soon,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .