President Muhammadu Buhari PHOTO: BAYO OMOBORIOWO President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday pledged to look into reported cases of illegal sale of land donated to the Nigeria Army by communities across the country. The President made the pledge when he received traditional rulers and opinion leaders drawn from the Urhobo Progress Union who paid him a courtesy visit at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. President Buhari stated that the alleged sale of the donated land meant for the military authorities across the country would not be tolerated, saying that anyone caught or implicated in the deal would be prosecuted accordingly. “”I have taken note of the representation that the land the community gave to the military is being sold. You are not the first set of people to make this kind of representation, other parts of the country made similar representation. ““So, by this representation I’m constrained to call on the relevant ministries to check the Ministries of Defence and Internal Affairs to find out those responsible for abusing the generosity you extended to the military will be brought to book. ““I assure you of that,’’ he said. On calls for restructuring the country, the President frowned at the way and manner some individuals or groups were carrying on with such calls,saying many were with parochial rather than national interest. According to him, some views being expressed for restructuring the country are uncoordinated adding that such clamours may not also be backed constitutionally. “You mentioned something which is being topical these days, the question of restructuring Nigeria, and every person or every group asking for restructuring they have got their own agenda. “”I hope it can be accommodated by the constitution we are currently operating,’’ he said. On the demand for boundary adjustment between Delta and Edo states as well as the request for a ministerial slot for the Urhobo, the President described their requests as constitutional matter. He said: “”If you look at the result of the election that brought this administration in, you will see that this administration has a lot of restraint in the sense that the constitution made a provision that there would be a representation in the executive council of each state. “”It is not possible to make each tribal group ( a minister) because I suspect they are around 250. “Two hundred and fifty “ ministers will be too cumbersome to handle, so it is limited to the constitution. So the only thing we can do is to pick one person per state and that is one thing we have to accept.’’ President Buhari thanked the Urhobo nation for ensuring peaceful coexistence between the law enforcement agencies and the people in the oil producing areas. He called on leaders in the Niger Delta to continue to cooperate and support the federal government in its efforts to transform the nation to greater height. “”I appeal to you to keep restraining your subjects to please think more of being Nigerians than any particular part of Nigeria. “ “This is necessary so that the resources that God blessed us with can be fully exploited, utilized for the benefits of the whole country. “”Unfortunately for me, I have gone through all the happenings in the country including the civil war, like you have mentioned I was petroleum minister for three or four years and so I have some experience and have a stake in the country,’’ he added. President Buhari also urged the leaders to talk to militants “to”please give peace a chance and stop sabotaging installations because like I said if we pollute the waters it will affect more of your people including those who depend on fishing. ““You don’t need money from Central Bank what you need is secured coastlines that will enable the people earn decent living through fishing.’’ In his remarks, President, Urhobo Peoples Union, Chief Olorogun Tiaga, lauded the efforts of the Buhari administration in the fight against corruption, and for ensuring peace in all parts of the country. He said: “”We acknowledge the giant strides of the Buhari administration in a space of three years across almost every sector of our national life. “There have been key improvement in our way of doing things, due to the bold approach of our President to governance; from the fight against corruption, to infrastructural development, to the massive improvement in agriculture, investment in human capital development and the creation of social safety nets for the vulnerable among us.’’  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .