 One of the works produced by CIS kids  Themed Dynamic Metamorphosis, the 2018 show was a reawakening of contemporary art consciousness among young ones. The students used art to address the SDGs, with emphasis on goal 12, which focuses on Responsible Consumption, and Production otherwise known as recycling. Speaking with The Guardian, Head of Arts and Design Department (CIS), Jay Elone, said: “The show is a wonderful display of children’s talent. The UN is talking about recycling and we have decided to take it seriously and do something about it. We make use of water plastics, spoons, straws, bottles and other materials and transform them into art. “We began preparation for the show early in the year. It took us a long time to gather the junks and then we started producing. We have two art rooms, one in junior school and another in the senior schools.” On her part, the Knowledge Management Assistant at the United Nations Information Centre, Bolanle Olumeko, who represented the director, Mr. Ronald Kayanja, said, “this is a very laudable project by the students and we are happy that the children are aware and are being sensitised about the SDGs, which is the agenda the world body is pushing in the next 30 years. Most of the works are on responsible consumption and production, which is very important. “The United Nations Ocean Day this year was on plastic and so seeing these students put plastics together and waste and making something good out of it, especially beautiful art works, I think is a laudable project, and we must commend CIS because we will be making our planet more sustainable if we are able to consume and re-use what we produce than littering everywhere with plastics.” CIS takes pride in its achievements as a school, most importantly, is its art’s accreditation and approval as a British School Overseas by the Department for Education (UK). It is the first school in Nigeria and the third in Africa to be so honoured.This year’s show had support of Chief (Mrs.) Monica Oyenike Okundaye, founder, Nike Art Gallery and Foundation, who is the school’s art advisor; Mrs. Polly Alakija; Lasmara; the Revolving Art Incubator; RELE Gallery and a host of others. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .