Tana Toraja, located on the mountainous island of Sulawesi in Indonesia, is one of the rare places that maintains its ancient culture. Despite being Christians, the people do not allow their religion to get entangled with their animist belief Aluk To Dolo “Way of the Ancestors”. On some houses, you cannot skip the horns of buffalos which show you how wealthy a family is but what easily catches everyone’s attention is the wooden piles with red and black designs. Built in an old-fashioned traditional way, the Tongkonan as they are called, are houses built to preserve the dead until they are properly buried in large ceremonies. This practice is guided by the belief that as long as the person is in a house, he remains sick, not dead. Derived from the name Tongkon, the process shows the significant and strong bond between the family and the dead. Like a living being, the body is fed and clothed because he is seen as alive and not dead. On rare occasions, you appreciate him if you see him. Saving for the funeral can go on for several years but when it is achieved, it is a huge celebration. This is why the funeral called the Rambu Solo translates to the ceremony of perfection of death. A dead body been dressed up. Photo credit TheGuardian/Claudio Sieber During the funeral, buffalos are engaged in a fight before the Buffalo Cauca Tedong Bonga is slaughtered as a highlight of the funeral.
Sometimes, spells are cast on the body to make them walk by themselves to the Balle graves. Once in the grave, they are buried alongside their favourite piece mostly consisting of cigarettes and wristwatches. Read More: In Tibet, Vultures Transport The Dead To Eternity Also, when the family visits, they come with the same favourite piece to give to their loved one. On the other side of the grave are the Tau Tau doll-like images which serve as guardian angels. Some skulls which date back to 1000 years old can still be seen in places. Even when they are taking to the mausoleum, they are still taken out to be cleaned and changed before they are taken back to their