 Obiligbo Brothers thrilling the crowd at Real Deal Experience in Port Harcourt  Just as they have been doing in recent times, the Obiligbo Brothers, grand children to the late ekpili music exponent Akunwafo Obiligbo, delivered a spectacular performance, as promised, and even raising the bar a notch higher. The two brothers – Ifeanyi Okpuozor Obiligbo & Chukwuebuka Akunwafor Obiligbo – have become a force to reckon with in Igbo highlife music across the Eastern part of the country and beyond. Fans of the superstar Highlife duo were treated to a great performance as the brothers went above and beyond to ensure the audience was thrilled. The ovation that greeted the appearance of the Obiligbo Brothers on stage was deafening and it got even louder as they began singing, starting out with the very popular Udo Ga Adi and then proceeding with other hit songs from their rich repertoire. Known for their energetic stage performances, the brothers left the crowd asking for more and all that were in attendance had wonderful things to say about the show.Obiora Ngwu, a resident of Port Harcourt who attended the event couldn’t contain his excitement “I never expected to have this much fun. This show is the ‘real deal’ indeed. It just felt like this whole party shouldn’t end. You see the crowd didn’t even want the Obiligbo brothers to leave the stage. This is what every show should look like.” Commenting on the success of the show, the Obiligbo brothers were full of praises for the organizers, “We had so much fun tonight. Port Harcourt feels like home for us. The show was great, the love here is real and this experience has made us connect better with our people and show appreciation to our fans. Tonight, everyone is happy and Legend Extra Stout made that happen. You guys are the Real Deal.” 
 
Portfolio Manager – Mainstream Lager & Stout Brands NBPlc., Mr. Emmanuel Agu while reiterating the importance of the show said, “The Real Deal Experience was created to make evenings like this a regular feature in the lives of fun lovers, watching and interacting with favourite music stars while enjoying a chilled bottle of Legend Extra Stout. The Obiligbo Brothers are very much loved here and the reception was superb. As a brand, we are proud and humbled at the same time to be able to create such wonderful experiences for our consumers.” Former BBNaija housemate Ifu Ennada, who co-hosted the show alongside comedian De Don, took control of the stage as always, doing a great job of keeping the crowd alive and well entertained all night. In addition to the great music performances, members of the audience also participated in games and role-playing with many lucky consumers going home with lovely gift items.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .