 Julius Berger  The project expected to be sited on a reclaimed parcel of land from the Lagos Lagoon. The sandfilling of the scheme is yet to commence.The proposed island is to be located 400 meters off the shoreline of the upscale Banana Island in Ikoyi. It would  sit  on  45 hectares, with a total of 131 plots. It consists of a shopping mall, Guest House, Police station a mosque and a clubhouse.The Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Tukur Burutai  visited the site of the proposed Apple Island being promoted by the Nigerian Army Properties Ltd. General Burutai, who performed the traditional   ground  breaking ceremony  said the project will  help to alleviate the accommodation  problems of the officers.Accompanied by  military commanders including General Enebong Udoh, General Officer Commander, 81 Division of the Nigerian Army, he stressed readiness for the project to be completed within time. The architectural design was handled by Messrs Majoroh Partners.  The shape was specifically done  to wade off water current  as well as  obstruct  debris.According to the architect, the island consists of  64 plots for the army, with another 24 hectares lay out, while a bridge will be constructed over board. The firm stressed that the  project is expected to have  two layout. One layouts for the Army and another for civilian  population, who will want to enjoy the security and  the ambiance provided  by nature.The Business Mmanager,  Tauraf International Limited , the appointed developer for the project, Babajide Ayoade, who briefed  the Army chief expressed optimism that project will be a delight for Nigerians. The Guardian gathered that the island was part of the Lagos Master plan created  over 40 years and was being designed in line with international best practices.Already prospective  buyers are already making enquiries for a plot as the island  will have other areas apart from  the  100 housing units for top military officers. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .