 (FILES) In this file photo taken on March 27, 2018 Nigeria’s German manager Gernot Rohr shouts instructions to his players from the touchline during the International friendly football match between Nigeria and Serbia at the Hive stadium in Barnet, north London.<br />The 2018 World Cup will take place in Russia from June 14, 2018 until July 15, 2018. / AFP PHOTO / Daniel LEAL-OLIVAS  He spoke yesterday in an interview with Spanish sports newspaper, Marca. Though, many Nigerians believe that the question of who is Nigeria’s first-choice goalkeeper to the World Cup should not be a debate, going by the performance of 19-year-old Francis Uzoho since he joined the team. ‘’We have been working hard in that position (goalkeeping) for a year. We had bad luck with the illness of Carl Ikeme [suffers from leukemia], but we have three good goalkeepers. The decision of who will be first choice will be taken in the last week,’’ Rohr said. The German added: ‘’Nigeria has not played two African Nations Cups. It is important that the atmosphere of the team is calm, without problems, disputes or egos. Once a good environment has been created we need to continue along that same line.’’ Meanwhile, Trabzonspor of Turkey midfielder, Ogenyi Onazi has labelled reports of him having an altercation with team captain Mikel Obi as ‘falsehood,’ according to Completesportsnigeria.com. There were reports that the pair (Onazi and Mikel) were at loggerheads over the leadership of the team, and the alleged tussle is affecting the chemistry of the players in camp. Onazi admits he has not been at his best in recent games, but adds that his performance has not affected his outstanding relationship with the Tianjin TEDA star Mikel. “It’s ridiculous to read that I don’t take orders from him (Mikel),” Onazi told only CSN. “He’s an outstanding individual and it hurts that this could be out there without verification. I relate well with Mikel, he is our captain and our leader. Thank you for trying to balance your reports. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .