Comedian Bovi and Joselyn Dumas As lovers of African movies gear up for this year’s edition of the Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards (AMVCAs), Africa Magic has announced that unveiling of nominees, who will do battle this year, will be announced via a televised broadcast on all Africa Magic channels on DStv and GOtv on Saturday, June 30, at 7pm WAT. According to the organisers, the nominees for each category will be revealed by popular Ghanaian actress and TV host, Joselyn Dumas and Nigerian comedian and actor, Bovi. Africa Magic brings the 2018 AMVCAs to viewers across the continent in association with MultiChoice and the sponsors, Airtel and Konga. Speaking on the milestone telecast, Channel Director, Africa Magic, Wangi Mba-Uzoukwu, revealed that close to 3000 entries were received across the continent. She also said that the judging panel spearheaded by veteran filmmaker, Debbie Odutayo, painstakingly reviewed each of the entries to arrive at the final shortlist of nominees. “We are honored to showcase and celebrate the creative industry each year on the platform of the AMVCAs. In the past five years, we have remained steadfast in our commitment to nurture and showcase indigenous talent from across the continent. Join us on Saturday, 30 June as we reveal the nominees for the sixth edition of the Awards”, she said. Launched in March 2013, the AMVCAs continue to celebrate the contributions of African filmmakers, actors and technicians to the success of the continent’s film and television industry. For the 2018 edition, a number of awards will be presented in 27 categories, with seven categories open to public voting and 20 being categories to be decided by the AMVCA panel of judges. The full list of nominees will be published on the Africa Magic website, www.africamagic.tv and social media platforms following the reveal. Viewers can join the conversation using the hashtag #AMVCA2018 and follow @dStvng, @gotvng and @africamagictv for live tweets. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .