When you hear China Town, your mind drifts to New York and you are easily reminded of some of your favourite scenes in Rush Hour. Well, this China Town is located at 14 Idowu Martins Street, Victoria Island. Contrary to how the name China Town reminds you of the USA, Chinese food here isn’t as cheap. So when we decided to have some food and China Town came up as an option, my mind was already thinking of how my wallet was going to bleed. On the contrary, this China Town reminded me of what it would be like to actually have good Chinese food for a decent price. If you are looking for a nice time out with friends, a fair price in Victoria Island then China Town has got your back. We ordered what made a large platter – beef in chilli sauce, rice noodles with chicken, shrimp fried rice, chicken chow mein and fish in cashew nut sauce. The meal came and as fairly priced as this meal was, it was a healthy portion for five people. The meal was the best Chinese food I have had in a while. The meal came at a decent time and it was hot and spicy. The beef sauce was spicy and the beef tender, which just went seamlessly with the rice meal. The texture and flavour of the rice noodles with chicken and the chicken chow mein was just right. Both meals were adequately spiced and you didn’t get an overwhelming burst of flavours when you mixed the meals together. The fish in cashew sauce had mixed reviews from my dinner mates. While some felt like the cashew sauce brought the highlight to the food, others felt it was salty. Although they all agreed that the fish was fried properly and had the perfect texture of crunchy on the outside and soft on the inside. It was a nice time out and a good meal altogether, seemed all the Island workers stop there to have a decent meal before they hit traffic heading home. Damage to the wallet was not life-threatening considering how generous the portions were. Price
Beef in chilli sauce: 2300
Rice noodles with chicken: 1800
Shrimp fried rice: 2200
Chicken chow mein: 2000
Fish in cashew nut sauce: 2700