Max Airplane. Photo: Maxair Max Air, has unveiled a new Boeing 737 into its fleet of aircrafts to boost domestic operations in Nigeria. With the arrival of the 300 series with 128 passengers’ capacity including six-cabin crew, Max Air is set to launch its domestic operations with Abuja-Lagos-Kano, soonest. Addressing journalists at the Malam Aminu Kano International Airport (MAKIA), Kano, on the arrival of the new aircraft, the Director of Operations, Max Air, Captain Ibrahim Dilli, said about 300 staff and 50- cabin crew members have been recruited for the domestic operations. Dilli explained Max Air enroute into the domestic routes was strategically conceived to enable services across all strata of the business community. He said: “You see when you provide air services as a social service; you will not only rely on people who are well-to-do or can provide international patronage. You have to, sometimes, stretch into the local market. So, that is why we are now trying to come into the domestic service to provide service for all. “So, primarily we are into domestic business to provide transportation to the public; but secondly, it is to provide employment—as we speak now, Max Air has employed over 300 people to service the domestic market. Our target is to be felt all over Nigeria. Like I promise two weeks ago, every state capital will feel our presence. “We have two Boeing 737—300 series on ground and more are coming. The aircrafts have the capacity of 128 passengers, with six crew members. At the moment, we have trained 50 cabin crew members to service the domestic routes and we hope to expand up to 12 aircrafts of the same make for domestic operations. “By regulation, you can only start operating when you have three aircrafts. Now, we have three serviceable aircraft so that we will not disappoint the public in case of breakdown. So, as soon as we bring in the third one, we will commence operation,” Dilli said. Max Air, which commenced operations in 2007 with three Boeing 747 for Hajj and Ummurah international routes, had so far airlifted about 500,000 passengers to the holy land. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .