It’s amazing how the many uses of coconut have been sidelined in this present day. There are a lot of Coconut-derived ingredients ranging from coconut oil to coconut flour and even coconut milk which can be used in kitchens at homes, restaurants and even for packaged food. Coconut is rich in calories and contains high natural saturated fats which do not only increase the healthy cholesterol in your body but also help convert the “bad” cholesterol into good cholesterols. Here are the skin benefits of coconut you should try; Face Wash
Coconut oil with its antimicrobial properties and moisturizing abilities on the skin is the perfect face wash needed to clean your face. It has the ability to hydrate the skin by making it feel and look younger. Coconut oils are usually contained in jars or tubs and found in supermarkets with other cooking oils or in the natural food section at stores. Body Scrub
A mixture of coconut oil with coconut sugar would unveil a smoother skin than you’ve ever imagined. To get rid of dead skin cells, use a coconut scrub to moisturize your body and try it a few more times during the week. Natural scrub ingredients Photo credit Pinterest Body Oil
For really dry skins, coconut oil is one of the best remedies available. Apply coconut oil on your palms and rub against each then use it instead of a body lotion. Apply on dry areas like the elbows and knees as they tend to get dry faster than other spots. Makeup Remover
Applying coconut oil to your skin most especially to the eye area will allow you to remove makeup without fear of irritating your ryes as compared to other makeup removers. It also provides extra hydration to sensitive areas which would reduce wrinkles. Gently apply the coconut oil on eyelids and wipe off eye makeup with a cotton pad or warm cloth. Insect Repellent
I’ll bet you didn’t know that your coconut oil could serve as an insect repellant. Mix some coconut oil with essential oils such as peppermint and lemongrass, clove, eucalyptus, or citronella and rub on your skin.
Although you’ll need to constantly reapply, this would prevent introducing the harsh chemicals and toxins of insecticides into your body system.