PHOTO: FIFA/Getty Images FT: Argentina are through to the next round of the World Cup. Nigeria 1-2 Argentina Heartbreaking, heart wrenching stuff. The young team gave their all and can leave with their teams held up high. 90+4′ It’s becoming a yellow card spree here as Messi gets a yellow card 90′ There will be four minutes of added on time 89′ Iwobi comes on or Omeruo as Croatia goes ahead against Iceland. 86′ HEARTBREAKING! Rojo scores as Argentina go ahead and are assured of a place in the round of 16 if the scoreline remains as it is. Nigeria 1-2 Argentina 83′ Ighalo is one on one against Armani from an acute angle but he plays it into the goalkeeper. Big chance missed from the striker. 81′ Kun Aguero replaces Tagliafico 81′ Still Nigeria 1-1 Argentina while Iceland have equalized against Croatia 76′ A bit of VAR drama as the referee takes the jog to teh screens for a review after Rojo seemed to get a hand to Musa’s cross for Ighalo. After the review, NO PENALTY!  71′ Nice build up play from Nigeria sees Ndidi’s shot fly just inches over the cross bar. Move started with Mikel who combined with Musa. Musa’s cut back is dummied by Ighalo before Ndidi hits a piledriver. 67′ Mascherano with a gash on his temple. He is with blood on his cheek and it is surprising he’s not been ushered out for treatments 65′ Nigeria 1-1 Argentina 64′ Yellow card for Ever Banega as he slide tackles Ndidi 61′ Ekong makes an important interception as he clears substitute Pavon’s deep cross teying to locate Higuain 58′ Nigeria defending in two banks of four as they win the ball and spring an attack. Musa races into the left channel as he turns Mascherano in the box on his outside. Hpwever, Musa’s cut back to Ighalo is blocked. 56′ Just the response that was needed. Super Eagles need to keep it this way or go into the lead as Croatia leading Iceland 1-0 Penalty Incident: Mascherano was adjudged to have brought down Balogun in the area during a corner kick. Arms all over the defender similar to Troost-Ekong’s foul in Croatia’s game. 51′ GOOOALLL!!! Moses scores as he sends Armani the wrong way. 50′ Moses to take….. Nerves all over the place now as the referee tries to sort some issues 49′ PENALTY FOR NIGERIA And we are back for the second half… Here’s biased me hoping the SUper Eagles ca n come back into this game better Substitution: Iheanacho out. Ighalo in The Super Eagles are unable to produce a response to Messi’s goal in the first half. There’s a solace, the Super Eagles do better in the second half of games 45′ A free kick is scooped into the box but it comes to nothing. The ball falls back for Nigeria but Balogun’s header is too weak to trouble Armani 43′  The Super Eagles try to work their way forward as Musa lifts a cross into the box, Otamendi clears but not without getting his foot to Iheanacho’s face. The striker writhes with pain on the turf but stands up after a while. 39′ Iheanacho has been frustrating in this game. Musa has not shown glimpses of his brilliance. Both eventually try to combine as Iheanacho tries to find Musa. The ball is overweighed but Musa burns pace to try to get to it. Armani is quick off his line to put it to touch. 34′ Messi lifts it over the wall and Uzoho gets his finger tips to the ball as it hits the upright. Messi is in his element and it will take a lot to stop him 32′ Di Maria is played through on goal and he sprints past Balogun. Balogun tracking back clips Di Maria’s legs and the referee whistles for a foul. Free kick. Messi and Banega stand over it… 30′ Argentina 0 – 1 Nigeria 27′ Save. Uzoho saves Higuain’s shot after the forward is slip through. The young goalkeeper gets a knee to the head in the process but after some attention from the medics, Uzoho is good to continue. 26′ Possession’s all Argentina as they loo to consolidate on their ascendancy. 63% for Albiceleste and 37% for the Super Eagles 23′ Balogun intercepts a pass and gallops forward to the other end of the pitch combining with Moses. He is brought down by Otamendi but the referee doesn’t award a free kick. 18′ Corner kick for Nigeria. Iheanacho’s delivery couldn’t pick a team-mate. Argentina spring a counter but Di Maria is stopped by Etebo. Etebo remonstrates as he contests Referee Cakir’s call. 14′ Goal! Messi scores. The forward received a pass from deep by Banega before finishing with his right foot past Uzoho. Nigeria 0-1 Argentina 13′ Iheanacho gets dispossessed by Masvherano making a recovery tackle after he was gifted the ball in the attacking third. Poor and indecisive from Iheanacho. 11′ Pressure building on the Nigerian penalty area as Omeruo boots a clearance after Argentina’s neat build up. 7′  Argentina passing better and create a chance with Banega playing Tagliafico through on the left. Taglifico shoots wide under presurre from Balogun. 6′ Etebo drives from deep and works himself into a shooting position but his shot his blocked before Argentina counter-attack. It is stopped with Mikel bringing down Messi fro a free kick 2′ Jorge Sampaoli opting for his white Argentina track suit on the sidelines instead of the jacket he wore against Croatia. Smart choice. He’d be less tempted to take this off. 1′ We are underway. Nigeria in their dark green stripes playing from left to right and Argentina in their white and sky blue striped home kit And the Anthems blare out from the tannoys and the respective fans. Argentina’s anthem seemed to lead in the decibel competition there. So who’s got your support Nigeria or Argentina? Obviously, an overwhelming majority will trump for Nigeria because… Anyways, hopefully there’s no one sitting on the fence or divided like Rio Ferdinand
https://guardian.ng/sport/ferdinand-torn-over-argentina-nigeria-game/ Argentina: Armani; Mercado, Otamendi, Rojo, Tagliafico; Perez, Mascherano, Banega, Di Maria; Messi, Higuaín. Referee: Cuneyt Cakir (Turkey). Still confused on how the Super Eagles can qualify to the round of 16. Keep the calculators. Here’s a pretty detailed take on what how they can get there and what happens if they lose or draw Russia 2018 permutations: How Super Eagles can qualify for round 16  It couldn’t get any easier for the Super Eagles to get one over Argentina after many years of losses in the World Cup. About time the Super Eagles get that elusive ‘L’ with the added pleasure of knocking Lionel Messi out of the World Cup before firmly installing Ahmed Musa as the G.O.A.T. Have a quick read of our match preview that warns that Argentina could rise to the occassion with everything on the line https://guardian.ng/sport/russia-2018-match-of-the-day-nigeria-vs-argentina-preview/      To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .