 Adams oshiomhole  The last aspirant contesting the position of the National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) with former Edo State governor, Adams Oshiomhole, has withdrawn. Mr. Clement Ebri, a former Cross Rivers State governor said he took the decision in the interest of the party, after consulting widely with friends and family. The secretary of the convention planning committee, Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba, who confirmed the development after issuing certificates to eligible aspirants, said delegates would now have to affirm Oshiomhole as  the chairman of the party. No fewer than 6,800 delegates are expected to vote for aspirants contesting for positions in the National Working Committee tomorrow. The Chairman, Media Subcommittee of the planning committee, Governor Abiola Ajimobi, stated this yesterday in Abuja.He spoke after the committee members inspected the Eagle Square venue of the event. “We are very happy about all the preparations. Everything is in place. You can see what we call a very professional arrangement for tomorrow,” he said.He explained that some aspirants might drop from the race before the convention. “Politics is about conflict and resolution. Today, we are meeting the aspirants to interview them. There will be give and take, so that it will be a smooth operation,” he said. Also speaking, former governor of Zamfara, Ahmed Yarima, who is the Chairman of the Subcommittee for Accreditation, said the committee had commenced the screening and accreditation of delegates from the 36 states and Federal Capital Territory.He assured that delegates would be properly scrutinised before entering the convention venue. “We are going to put numbering and security code, so that as soon as you come to the gate you are properly identified, screened, and then you enter. Even as they vote inside, you have another card that you present, so you can be allowed to vote,” he said.In an interview on Wednesday, Oshiomhole, had promised: “Anyone elected on our platform, including the president will be expected to conduct government and governance in a way that promote the core values of progressive governance.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .