 Governor of Benue State Samuel Ortom speaks about internally displaced people and farmer’s violent clashes from Logo and Guma communities at Gbajimba IDPs camp outskirts of Makurdi, capital of  Benue State in northcentral Nigeria on January 4, 2018.<br />Nomadic cattle herders have all but left Benue state, driven away by fighting over access to resources and a new law banning migratory herding, an age-old practice necessary for the survival of the livestock. More than 100 people have been killed since early January, with 100,000 fleeing their homes to safety, according to the local emergency management agency (SEMA). After months of inaction, the Nigerian army announced the imminent deployment of troops for “Operation Cat Race” in several city states, including Benue to end the violence.  / AFP PHOTO / PIUS UTOMI EKPEI  He spoke at the New Banquet Hall of the Benue People’s House, Makurdi, while inaugurating 17 boards members and two governing council. According to him, most of his appointees had failed to explain or enlighten the people on issues pertaining to governance, especially when criticised wrongly by a section of the public. He also faulted their approach to issues when people seek assistance from them. Ortom also linked some of the problems in the state to followership, adding that Benue is one of the most difficult states to rule, due to the attitude of the people towards their leaders. He said: “Many people have approached me to sack my media team for being ineffective. But even if you bring the best journalists to give to manage the state’s publicity, the same challenges would remain.” The governor told the new board appointees that they had come to serve at a time that his administration was facing numerous challenges. He added that the people’s expectations were high and urged them to swiftly deploy their experience to respond to all their expectations. He said: “Ours is a call to serve and not to make money. In our administration, no one is allowed to divert public funds into private pockets. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .