Getting a father’s day gift may be one of the hardest things you will have to think about this month of June. We presume right now you are stuck with trying to get the perfect gift for your dad while trying not to wreck yourself,  no worries we got you! These gift ideas should be considered when thinking of what to get him. A tie.<br />Photo credit: Getty Images If your dad a lot of OTT and vintage prints ties, it’s time to get him a classic grey, blue or black tie that will be a staple on any of his outfits. Customized mug. photo credit: o21 designs What is more thoughtful than a customized mug? It does not have to be about expensive gifts and dinner at expensive restaurants either. A customized mug with your thoughts written out on it is a splendid gift. A pair of cufflinks.<br />Photo credit: Torque  As little as these may seem they will do a lot in elevating your dad’s simple shirt look into looking like a sophisticated classic man. A pair of socks. Photo credit: Amazon Lift up his socks collection from regular “old daddy” patterned socks to fun patterns of neutral black, grey and white colour scheme that will go with everything. A black dad in pyjamas Photo credit: A1 This may not seem like the best gift to get your dad but he sure will appreciate it, pj’s are not what people think of changing every now and then, getting a new pair might have been on his wish list, so make yourself a genie and fulfil his wish. A pair of shoes.<br />Photo credit: Getty Images Odds are your dad already has a few pairs of shoes and may seem satisfied with what he own well, he isn’t. Everyone loves new shoes, and so does your dad. A pair of shoes is a father’s day gift that can never go wrong. A cologne.<br />Photo credit: Bvlgari Again, you can never go wrong with a cologne Tortoise-Shell Sunglasses.<br />Photo credit: Oliver Bonas accessories Cool dads are the best dads. Get your dad a pair of glasses he’ll look super cool in them, preferably Tortoise-Shell Sunglasses they always look good and are a contrast between he’s medicated glasses he wears on a daily basis.