 Lanre Olusola  He came to Olusola Lanre Coaching Academy, and was coached through his depression until he got better and was ready to face life with a positive mindset. He was also taken through a very important aspect of Emotional Immunity, which is D.O.S.E. What is D.O.S.E?
Dopamine, Oxytocin, Serotonin and Endorphin (D.O.S.E) are body chemicals responsible for happiness and mental stability. Below are ways to increase your D.O.S.E level: 1.	DOPAMINE: Is one of the most extensively studied neurotransmitters. It plays an important role in attention, memory, mood, learning, sleep, movement, and anticipatory pleasure. Having the right amount of Dopamine in your system will motivate and drive competitive behaviors in you. You can boost your dopamine level by:
a)	Eating foods rich in tyrosine, such as almonds, bananas, avocados, eggs, beans, fish, and chicken.
b)	Exercising regularly
c)	Practicing meditation
d)	Massage
e)	Getting enough sleep and much more 2.	OXYTOCIN: Often called “The love hormone”, Oxytocin is a powerful chemical that acts as a neurotransmitter in the brain. It regulates social interaction, sexual reproduction, and orgasm. Increase your Oxytocin by:
a)	Giving a Gift
b)	Sharing a meal
c)	Having a hot bath
d)	Increasing positive personality traits such as: empathy, warmth, trust, and openness.
e)	Having great Sex: Always Hold, Spoon, Cuddle and Gist after each round. 3.	SEROTONIN: Serotonin is an important chemical and neurotransmitter in the human body, which helps to regulate mood, social behavior, appetite, sleep, memory and emotions. Low serotonin levels have been linked to depression. When your serotonin levels are normal, you feel: happier, calmer, more focused, less anxious and more emotionally stable. Serotonin can be increased by:
a)	Reducing your sugar intake
b)	Daily intake of vitamin B-complex, especially during times of stress.
c)	Taking daily power walks first thing in the morning (at least 20 minutes).
d)	Get some early morning sun rays and vitamin D into your system.
e)	Eat healthy and getting regular massage 4.	ENDORPHINS: Endorphins are chemicals produced naturally by the nervous system to cope with pain or stress. They are often called “feel-good” chemicals because they can act as a pain reliever and happiness boosters. You can boost your Endorphins by:
a)	Eating dark Chocolates
b)	Taking yourself out on a treat once in a while
c)	Exercise
d)	Laugh! Laughter makes the world merry
e)	Eat hot peppers and spicy foods
f)	Have a bit of alcohol once in a while By injecting Michael with a high dose of D.O.S.E, he developed a healthier mental health. There are a lot of people like Michael in today’s world. Rather than live in self-doubt, which can lead to depression and finally suicide. Sign up for the Emotional Intelligence Masterclass, which takes place from the 20th to 24th of July by reaching out to us on 08077077000, or send an email to info@olcang.com. To stay motivated and have a positive mindset, get a copy of “Affirmations” on https://bit.ly/2MCgifs.  In order to overcome depression and Be All You Were Created To Be, check out my resources on https://bit.ly/2t6T5KY.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .