In the dating game, there are a lot of men and by a lot, we mean a lot. The sad thing is, there might be none that appeals to you. And that is not because there is no attraction or no compatibility, it’s just that there might be something one or the both of you dread For men, the worst thing you can tell them to do is commit. A woman must understand that she cannot force a man to commit. He commits because he wants to. Although you cannot force him to, there is a lot you can do to steer him in that direction. For women, insecurity can be the most damaging thing in their relationship. It is why there is a big need to be certain of what you want. If you think about it, there must be a reason Neyo sang praises for his “Miss Independent” and goes on further to explain why he “loves her”. Yet, there are some women who have gotten the men of their dreams but can’t seem to find a way to get him to commit. While we will address how to get him to commit to another post, a woman needs to know the type of man she has fallen in love with: The players are the most popular in the game. No matter the form they come in, they are always irresistible. As far as they are concerned, it is all a game and will be treated as such. Get to know about the different types of players here. The word “no” is non-existent in his dictionary. No matter how much you try to get him to have a conversation where you might be needing another opinion, it is a “yes to whatever you say”. Not only that, he lets you make decisions, big or small. At first, this can be interesting but in the long wrong, it can get tiring, mechanical and boring. How can he not be able to make decisions that can change the course of your lives? Read More: Why Your Partner Acts Hot-And-Cold The Relaxed He just wants to wait to see how things will turn out. You have probably heard that from someone you know. He wants you to wait until his life is sorted out. By life being sorted out, you are not even a part of it until all that phase is clear. The problem is, he might be out of your league by then. If he does not want you involved now, what makes you think he might change his mind? These ones are the best. They inspire you and want to see you do better. They are confident as well as mature. However, getting them to fall in love with you is another ballgame altogether. They are the ones who love you and appreciate your presence in their lives and are not ashamed to show it.
Every woman should decide and define who it is she wants. While it is hard to control your fall in love with, it is possible to surround yourself with men who tick some qualities on your bucket list.