Former national publicity secretary of the People’s Democratic Party Olisa Metuh lies on the floor after he collapses in a courtroom in Abuja on Monday, May 21, 2018. PHOTO: Bridget Chiedu Onochie The traditional ruler of Nnewi and grand patron, Anambra State Traditional Rulers Council, Igwe Dr K.O.N Orizu III, has expressed worries over the state of health of former spokesperson, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Oliseh Metuh. Metuh, who is also a member of the Igwe Nnewi-in-Council, has been reported sick and on admission at the National Hospital, Abuja, for a spinal chord related ailment. In a statement issued Friday by the Private Secretary to Igwe Nnewi, Prince Obi Orizu, the Monarch, while restating his full support for the ongoing war against corruption, and did not intend to interfere with the trial, however, called on the government to allow Metuh access to the scheduled surgery abroad. “Irrespective of the issues in court, we remain concerned about the condition of our son’s health, as he, being a citizen, still has his right to life. “We, therefore, hold that he be given the opportunity to access adequate medical care and treatment as prescribed by his doctors.” The statement read that since Igwe Orizu personally visited Chief Metuh in January, when he was on admission at the intensive care unit of the Nnamdi Azikiwe University Teaching Hospital, Nnewi, he has remained pained that the sick has not been allowed to access the prescribed surgery, even at the risk of his life. “The Igwe had last week also, dispatched a delegation to visit our son at the National Hospital, where they met him in critical condition and in severe pain in the Intensive Care Unit of the Trauma Center of the hospital, being attended to by doctors. “This delegation had reported that though our son is receiving the optimal attention of top doctors at the National Hospital where he has been stabilized, his condition remains precarious, as he needs the scheduled surgery. “The Igwe extends the appreciation of the Igwe Nnewi-in Council and indeed the entire people of Nnewi to the doctors at the National Hospital for the wonderful care being given to their son even in the midst of strike action by health workers.” Chief Metuh, who in 2003 became one of the youngest persons to receive a chieftaincy title in Nnewi, holds the title of Ugo Chidebelu Nnewi. “The Igwe Nnewi-in-Council stands with him in prayers and the strong belief that he will eventually be healed of his spinal troubles”, the statement further read. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .