REUTERS/Akintunde Akinleye A Lagos High Court, Igbosere, has adjourned till September 24, 2018 the case between Lexon Properties Limited and Buruji Kashamu for hearing of the pending applications. Apart from Kashamu, others listed as defendants are Kasmal Properties Limited and Kano State government. The plaintiff (Lexon Properties) had a five years lease with Kano State government and in a bid to acquire and extend his hotel business, the 1st defendant (Kashamu) sought to dispossess the claimant from his office through alleged trumped up charges. The charges include that the claimant was harboring cultist in its office and they were smoking Indian hemp. The Police thereafter, took over possession of the property and handed it over to the defendant with all the claimant’s assets in the premises. Counsel to the claimant said efforts to resolve the matter amicably has failed and Lexon Properties has suffered loss and continues to suffer loss from the actions and inactions of Kasmal Properties Ltd. Kasmal Properties, the 2nd defendant in the suit, was alleged to have been used to forcefully eject Lexon Properties. Counsel to the claimant said: “All office equipment, files, laptops, safe, phones belonging to the claimant are still locked up since August 2013 by the Kano State Government. “Initially, Kano State was included in the suit, but later its name was removed when Lexon Properties truly believed that the issues would be resolved amicably. Unfortunately, nothing has been resolved”. Also, in a ruling on January 18, Justice S. A. Onigbanjo had ordered the payment of the sum of N50million daily, commencing from August 14, 2013 until the defendants yield up possession of the premises. The judge further ordered that “interest at the rate of 10 percent per annum be payable on the judgment sum from August 14, 2013 until liquidation of the judgment sum.” But when the matter came up at the last hearing before Justice Onibanjo, the court did not hear applications from either of the parties and adjourned to September 24, 2018 for the hearing of the applications. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .