(FILES)(COMBO) This combination of pictures created on March 9, 2018 comprising of a file picture from North Korea’s official Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) taken on December 23, 2017 and released on December 24, 2017 showing North Korean leader Kim Jong-Un during the 5th Conference of the Workers’ Party of Korea Cell Chairpersons and a file picture showing US President Donald Trump looking on during the National Prayer Breakfast at a hotel in Washington, DC on February 8, 2018. US President Donald Trump said April 26, 2018 that three or four possible dates were being considered for his landmark summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.”We have a decision to be made. We have three and four dates. That includes five locations. That will be narrowed down,” Trump said on Fox News.Trump had previously said his much-anticipated meeting with Kim would take place in May or early June, within weeks of Friday’s historic inter-Korean summit. / AFP PHOTO / KCNA via KNS AND AFP PHOTO / STR / South Korea OUT / REPUBLIC OF KOREA OUT Donald Trump’s attorney said North Korean leader Kim Jong Un begged “on his hands and knees” for a summit with the US president, The Wall Street Journal reported Wednesday. “They… said they were going to go to nuclear war with us, they were going to defeat us in a nuclear war,” Rudy Giuliani told a Tel Aviv investment conference, according to the newspaper. “We said we’re not going to have a summit under those circumstances.” “Well, Kim Jong Un got back on his hands and knees and begged for it, which is exactly the position you want to put him in,” Giuliani said. The Trump attorney said that with the summit rescheduled, the United States has the upper hand. Singapore’s foreign minister will make a two-day trip to Pyongyang starting Thursday, as preparations for the Trump-Kim summit in the city-state accelerate. The announcement came a day after the White House revealed that the historic June 12 meeting between the US and North Korean leaders will take place in a luxury hotel on Singapore’s resort island of Sentosa. The summit is due to be held following a rapid detente between Pyongyang and Washington — as well as South Korea — in a turn-around from a dramatic escalation of tensions last year, when the North ratcheted up its weapons programme. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .