Kaduna State governor Nasir El-Rufai Governor Nasir Ahmad El-Rufai has ordered the immediate prosecution of 50 suspected gangsters, with the name, Yan Shara or Sarasuk, that have been terrorising parts of Kaduna State. According to the state government, the suspects, arrested last weekend by security agents in different locations within the metropolis, are to be arraigned before a Magistrate’s Court at the conclusion of investigation by relevant agencies. Their arrest followed last week’s urban hooliganism in parts of the capital. The media aide to the governor, Samuel Aruwan, in a statement yesterday in Kaduna, said: His Excellency has directed security agencies to deal decisively with the menace of urban hoodlums. “Governor Nasir Ahmad El-Rufai has received briefings from security agencies on the outrage by urban gangsters, notoriously known as Yan Shara or Sarasuka. He has also visited Abakpa community where he interacted with some members of the community and condemned the activities of the gangsters.” He continued: “Security agencies have updated the governor on the arrest of over 50 suspects. The governor has ordered the police and the Ministry of Justice to ensure prompt investigation and diligent prosecution of whoever is indicted.” “The governor also urged the police to ensure that the fleeing suspects do not escape justice, declaring that all government agencies must work collectively to end the menace.” The aide further clarified the position of the government on the proliferation of vigilance groups in the state. He stated: “The Kaduna State government has made it clear that only the Kaduna State Vigilance Service is empowered by law to regulate the activities of vigilantes. “Any community that wishes to make contribution to security and intelligence gathering should forward the affected persons to the Kaduna State Vigilance Service and security agencies for thorough screening.” “This is to ensure they such persons have no criminal records or tendencies that could compromise the security and well-being of the citizenry. “By this clarification, communities should liaise with the Kaduna State Vigilance Service to make arrangements for their enhanced security”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .