 Auwal Ibrahim Musa  Speaking with The Guardian yesterday, Executive Director, Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), Auwal Ibrahim Musa (Rafsanjani) said that Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI) audit reports clearly articulate all the individual companies that have not been remitting funds that suppose to go the Federal Government.He therefore called for more proactive measures from the Federal Government to put up sanction against firms that continue to siphon or short-change the country. 
    
“The arrogance, by which some of these companies are doing it, cannot be tolerated by any country outside Nigeria,” he said.He noted that Nigeria is having the challenge of unremitted fund due to corruption in the country.  “There was a situation about somebody who gave directive to NNPC to keep money somewhere instead of paying it into the CBN. This is not good for the country that claims to be fighting corruption. There is no way a government agency can be perpetrating this financial impunity. We have laws regarding how government institutions should operate and how fund should be remitted into the Federal Government’s coffers. “Federal Government has been celebrating Single Treasury Account (TSA), but with the attitude of some of these government’s agencies, it is very clear that they don’t even respect that decision”.The President, Oil and Gas Trainers Association of Nigeria (OGTAN), Dr. Afe Mayowa, emphasized the need for the government’s agencies to  ensure payment to other government enterprises for services rendered.
   
He stated: “We have to look and see how government establishment are crumbling others.  There was a time the Federal Government owed Nigeria’s power utility company billions of naira. The power utility company will always continue to provide services to government’s agencies.  These debts are huge. If government-to-government agencies don’t pay their bills, it will cripple the other part of government.”To avoid the occurrences of unremitted fund, he called on the concerned regulatory agencies to ensure there is efficient remittance of fund by the exploration and production companies.  “The other recoverable is the sum of $1.050 billion and N68.552 billion representing the outstanding payments for the oil wells divested by the NNPC to NPDC. These are part of the remedial issues, which NEITI reports seek to be addressed to improve government revenues generation and transparency in the sector.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .