 Healthcare  Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Hygeia, Obinna Abajue, said the purpose of the HMO is to help people achieve their dreams and that its fundamental rests on access to quality and affordable health care. To address the issue, Abajue stated that Hygeia would convene a Healthcare Nigeria conference, bringing major key players in the industry to proffer solutions on attaining Universal Health Coverage (UHC) across the country. “The theme of the conference is ‘Sustainable Healthcare, The Roadmap.’ The ultimate purpose of the healthcare Nigeria conference series is for all stakeholders to begin to play their respective roles in creating solutions to the issue of healthcare quality, affordability and accessibility. The starting point for the stakeholders to meet and have honest conversation about the issues and to proffer workable solutions,” he said. Abajue added that the conference would focus on enabling hospital to deliver better care by strengthening capacity and giving an insight into funding solutions. “The conference will also discuss options for achieving universal healthcare coverage as well as optimising Public Private Partnership (PPP) initiatives to enhance reach of healthcare solutions,” he stated. Hygeia boss explained that there will be major networking opportunities at the event which is designed to yield significant impact in healthcare delivery by providing practical solutions and benefits to all stakeholders. He continued: “This is a continuation of what we began in 2017, to come together in this platform to commit ourselves again to add to the value chain success and the success will be measured by the number of Nigerians that can access affordable and quality care. “The difference between somebody dying and living and achieving their dreams is something as fundamental as access to health care and what we observed is that it is not something we can achieve alone; it requires all meaning thinking Nigerian, stakeholders to play their part to be able to achieve. This healthcare Nigerian conference enables the stakeholders to come together and decide the best way to enhance every aspect of the value chain.” He said one of the solutions Hygeia has delivered to the market is the inventory financing for drugs. “Hospital can have access to medications to dispense to people without having to pay for it as it is delivered. They only pay for what they actually use and someone carries out the financing inventory. This is a funding solution that does not involve carrying money from one person to another,” Abajue said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .