 Akwa Ibom governor Emmanuel Udom  While taking a general overview of the administration of Ambode, the monarch said the governor has not only performed well but has also surpassed his predecessors in office. In a similar vein, a socio-political organisation in Akwa Ibom State, Ibom Mandate Crusade (IMC) has endorsed Governor Udom Emmanuel for a second term. According to the coordinator, IMC South West, Dorcas Ikabor, the crusade to ensure Emmanuel’s return in 2019 was borne out of the desire to have a united, progressive and prosperous Akwa Ibom. Speaking at a function in Epe recently, Oba Ogunlaja said the handwriting of Ambode’s accomplishments in office since 2015, was clear for anyone to read. He stressed: “Even if there is no need for comparison, it is obvious that the incumbent administration has done a lot, which words cannot explain.” Read More: Groups endorse Ambode for second term He said, “The handwriting of Ambode’s performance is visible for everyone to see and feel. Talking about infrastructure, lighting up the state, even the public service and sanitation, these are part of the areas he has performed very well. “The governor has equally increased the population of the Obas in council. He has given the traditional institution a sense of belonging. He has helped to increase the level of participation of the monarchs in the activities and state affairs.” Speaking on his intentions for creating the Ambo Lekan si Grassroots Volunteers, Ogunlaja said the good works the governor was doing inspired him. He said the group had become the most trending in all the 57 local government and Local Council Development Areas (LCDA) in Lagos State. “We are also complementing the governor’s work by encouraging and educating our people on the need to pay their tax, maintain their roads and making sure the environment is clean. By so doing, people can see the good work of the governor. We have also been calling all the stakeholders and leaders to encourage their followers to get their Permanent Voters’ Cards and vote,” he said. Also, the Oloja of Epe Kingdom, Oba Ishola Kamorudeen Animashaun said he is in total support of Ambode’s second term bid because the governor has proven himself as leader that deserves another opportunity. He promised to lead his subjects be do everything within their power to back the governor’s second term bid. The IMC coordinator said the group has assisted the Emmanuel administration by taking the activities of government to the grassroots for the people to be well informed. She said the group’s vision is to raise, assemble and nurture a generation of young vibrant Akwa Ibom citizens to build a viable and egalitarian society in the state. According to her, “A person of Emmanuel with tremendous achievements should be given another opportunity to continue to serve the people of our state. This we believe will help consolidate his achievements in office and chart a way forward for our state. I urge all great and progressive minds from the state at home and in Diasporas to join hands and make this project a reality. “Since the emergence of Governor Emmanuel, it is undisputed fact that he has pursued the industrialisation of the state with vigor to complement the infrastructural development of the previous administration.” She highlighted that the group will explore all avenues and work with like minds to make it a success, advising member to regularise their voters card in support of the venture. Similarly, International Coordinator, IMC, Aniekan Ekwere said their approach was to organise fasting and prayer with sensistisation and later on embark on aggressive campaigns across the state. Ekwere added that IMC remain undaunted in its commitment to giving all to the administration as the group embarked on Operation Catch Them Young Project, that would be backed by offering scholarship and counseling programme to students.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .