Kaduna to begin peace education in schools Eight people have been reported killed in a cult war in Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital.The renewed cult war, according to sources, was between two notorious cult groups identified as Greanlanders and Bobos. 
 
According to security reports, the number of casualties on both sides may rise in the next few days.This followed reports that the groups are preparing for reprisal attacks Yesterday, a man in his early 20s was brutally murdered in full glare at the popular Punch road, where most journalists in the city resides. The situation has made the residents and business owners to live in fear.This is coming as the state government and the former governor of the state, Timipre Sylva, have traded words over insecurity in the state. The governor’s Special Adviser on Security, Boma Spero-Jack, accused Sylva of sponsoring acts of destabilisation in the state.But, Sylva through his spokesman, Doife Ola, said the state government’s allegation was unsurprising. He said it was the style of Governor Seriake Dickson to feed the people a line to mask his incompetence each time it manifests in failure.The APC chief said Dickson is terrified and panic-stricken and feels always that he is being pursued. He said: “Yes, he is being pursued, but by his own lack of capacity to govern. “A leader who cannot take responsibility for his actions and inactions is simply not worthy of his office. Dickson has demonstrated this since coming to office.”
 
The spokesman of the sate Police Command, Asimin Butswat, confirmed that the matter had been reported to the police, and promised to get in touch.Meanwhile, the Kaduna State Peace Commission (KAPECOM), has disclosed plans to develop peace education in the state’s primary school curriculum. This was disclosed at a news conference in Kaduna on Wednesday, by the Chairman of the commission, Most Rev. Josiah Idowu-Fearon.He said the move is to check the series of violent conflicts that had over the years plunged the state into chaos. He explained that the proposed peace education would promote peaceful co-existence among residents.He urged the youths to become peace ambassadors in their various communities. KAPECOM chairman said the commission had in the last six months taken its assignment with all seriousness.The chairman added that it had also initiated broad level engagement with diverse stakeholders including traditional, religious and political leaders. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .