Anger, shock and an academic shutdown at a university have ensued following student protests over the death of Rhodes University student Khensani Maseko. This comes months after the 23-year-old law student was allegedly raped at the university she attended. Khensani Maseko. Photo: Twitter Maseko was found dead in her family’s home in Johannesburg after a tragic final post was published on Instagram. The member of the student chapter of South Africa’s Economic Freedom Fighters (EFFSC-CSCT), in her final post, admitted that she had been raped. Maseko posted a photo with her date of birth and last Friday’s date (when she died) and wrote, “No one deserves to be raped!!” NO ONE DESERVES TO BE RAPED!! A post shared by  Khensani Maseko (@_khensani_) on Aug 3, 2018 at 5:20am PDT  The third-year BA student’s demise has led to students’ demands for an opportunity to mourn Miss Maseko and demonstrate over their claims of a rape culture at the university. The Mail and The Guardian reported that, in recent years, Rhodes students have been protesting against gender-based violence, and in 2016 circulated a list of names of students accused of rape. Rhodes had announced Miss Maseko’s death in an email, writing, “As the Rhodes University community, we would like to extend our sincerest condolences to her family, loved ones, and everyone that knew her.” The university has stated that it would suspend the student who allegedly raped Miss Maseko. Khensani Maseko. Photo: Twitter In a statement, Rhodes SRC’s Nhlakanipho Mahlangu said, “We know the amount of promise she had to offer us all, I mean to offer the entire country. We’re very shaken, it’s a very difficult time for us as the SRC and we wish her family all the strength and support that we can.” Maseko’s death comes as South Africa marks Women’s Month. The month recognises the 20,000 women who marched on August 9, 1956, in protest against the extension of Pass Laws to women, recognises efforts to improve the status of women, and also raises awareness about the barriers and dangers to women that still exist. Maseko had been elected to Rhodes’ Student Representative Council (SRC), was voted Miss Varsity for the 2017-18 university year and was involved in a number of student activities. Her funeral is due to be held this Thursday, the National Women’s Day and the 62-year anniversary of the march. Condolences have been pouring in for Maseko from various people across the world. She has a name… #Khensani #RIPKhensani #BeautifulAngel pic.twitter.com/Bm8fVJBsvC — Nomzamo Mbatha (@NomzamoMbatha) August 5, 2018  Strength of a Woman comes from within. #RIPKhensani — ZAHARA (@ZaharaSA) August 5, 2018  I’m so cut. Literally in tears. What is this evil within men? #RIPKhensani pic.twitter.com/LcS44gfC31 — Wasanga Mehana (@Wasanga_Mayhem) August 5, 2018  Nothing can ever justify the way women are treated, abused and killed at any given time in this country. Men! Stop it! #RIPKhensani — Thabile Ngwato (@ThabileNgwato) August 5, 2018  What in the WORLD???!!!! My heart is shattered!!! What have women done to be hated, to be disrespected soooo much??!!! May you find peace and love in you new journey gorgeous soul #RIPKhensani pic.twitter.com/9glMxtXS41 — Thando Thabooty (@Thando_Thabethe) August 5, 2018  I am so so sorry, Khensani. Rest, baby girl.  #RIPKhensani #SihleMaphumuloMustBeJailed #EnoughisEnough pic.twitter.com/V4EC8lgP4D — Boity Thulo (@Boity) August 5, 2018  #ripkhensani Even the strong friends need an ear and some love! — Tumi Sole (@tumisole) August 5, 2018  She left a suicide note for the world. I can only imagine what was going through her mind in those final moments. She was only 23.
END RAPE CULTURE. END VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN. END IT NOW!#RIPKhensani pic.twitter.com/wcDDkEQO3E — Sesi Madjozi (@cjneema) August 5, 2018  “When people ask for help…Help them” – Khensani Maseko. #RIPKhensani — Portia Gumede (@portiagumedesa) August 5, 2018 