A philanthropist and President, Kingdom Redemption Outreach Center International, Apostle Faith Eden Osakwe is building an orphanage in the country to empower the youth and less privileged in the society. The president said the ministry, which is located in the United States of America, has built schools in several cities, hospitals and clinics in villages including vocational schools to empower people and aid communities. The orphanage, Osakwe said is a scholarship programme that will cater for their education from cradle to university level.She said: “My plan is to inspire youths in skills acquisition. I am planning to build a school with vocational centre. Currently the satellite campus in Ibadan is under construction, we are going to have a clinic on the campus, supermarket, a farm that will cater for different farming such as the fishery, animal farm, vegetable, crops. The school will have a technical college, we are also going to encourage sporting activities of all kinds, so that youths can compete with their contemporaries from other countries.” Osakwe stated that her vision is to have missionary children and orphans put on scholarship, while also reducing crime rate and youth restiveness in the nation.She quipped: “when we keep the youth busy, it will reduce crime rate and fortify the safety of our nation and our people.” Speaking on what motivated her to give back to the society, Osakwe lamented that the country has retrogressed, saying, “The Nigeria I am seeing now does not look like the country I was born into. In those days there was free education, but nowadays the rate of crime in our country has become worse. If you go abroad and you mention Nigeria, then you are already tagged a criminal. It is as if the name Nigeria is synonymous with crime. So we want to change that internationally”. The president noted that Nigerians abroad are excellent but many of them are claiming nationality of other countries because of the stigma associated with the name of the country due to the negative stereotype of the people. She advised those in the diaspora to work together to make the country great again. She also called on all Nigerians to support those in the diaspora that want to bring true change to the country. She said: “The fear most of our people abroad have is that when they come home to make a change, they are killed. We have heard stories of people that came home to do something different and before you know it they are dead. So a lot of Nigerians abroad are afraid of coming home so that they don’t get killed.
Osakwe also advised Federal Government to support genuine people who want to change the nation for the better and not let them get frustrated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .