President Buhari Nigerian government has dismissed allegations that President Muhammadu Buhari intends to turn the country into an Islamic state. Buhari who became president under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has been accused on different occasions by the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of imposing Islamic religion on citizens of the country. But, Secretary to the Nigerian Government Boss Mustapha described the allegation as a falsehood being circulated by enemies of the president and Nigeria . Mustapha who spoke at a two-day peace summit organised by the Christian Association of Nigeria (Northern Region) said the accusations are geared toward influencing religious war in the country. He said Christians in the country only needed to counter the alleged plan by Buhari with their own Christian agenda, saying “Nobody can kill the gospel,” The secretary urged the Nigerian Christians to embrace the principles and teachings of Christ which were about love among humanity, irrespective of religious affiliations. “I must correct the dummy been sold by some rumour-mongers about the issue of Islamising Nigeria; nobody can (Islamise Nigeria),” Mustapha said. “I want the Church to know that nobody can kill the gospel, let’s continue to be our brother’s keepers at all times and continue to preach peace.” He said, “Where is our agenda as Christians? Let us have a Christian agenda that will promote love, including loving the Muslims; we should go out and make disciples of all nations and stop operating under the siege mentality.” Mustapha assured Nigerians that the current security challenges in Nigeria would soon be over as the government was doing everything possible to tackle the menace. The summit was with the theme, “Sustainable peace and security in northern Nigeria as a panacea for development.” Other notable attendees at the summit were the Minister of Agriculture, Chief Audu Ogbeh; Minister of Sports, Solomon Dalung and Deputy Governor of Adamawa State, Martins Babale. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .