 [File] PHOTO: TWITTER  In a statement yesterday by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, the group stated that inhabitants of the two geo-political zones and other conscientious Biafrans living in other parts of the country and the world over are required to stay indoors on that day and away from work or other daily business activities throughout the day. It said it would be a protest to register their anger regarding men and women killed at Afaraukwu in Umuahia during Operation Python Dance II on September 14, last year, those killed in Ngwa, Aba, Igweocha (Port Harcourt) and buried in unmarked mass graves as a result of military invasion of Biafraland by the Nigerian Army. Besides, it said all businesses, offices, markets, schools and road transportation would be shut down for 24 hours from midnight of September 13. In a statement yesterday by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, IPOB further said: “As a result of ongoing campaign of ethnic and religious persecution, genocide and humiliation of the people of Biafra in general and Igbo people in particular by this Buhari regime, culminating in the abominable incarceration of innocent mothers, grandmothers and great grandmothers in Owerri prisons, we the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) do hereby declare September 14, 2018 a day of general strike, mourning and resistance across Biafraland. “Inhabitants of South-East/South-South and all conscientious Biafrans living in other parts of Nigeria and the world are required to stay indoors away from work or daily business activities throughout the day of September 14, 2018 to register our anger and protest regarding the men and women killed at Afaraukwu in Umuahia during Operation Python Dance II on September 14 last year, those killed in Ngwa, Aba, Igweocha (Port Harcourt) and buried in unmarked mass graves as a result of unprovoked military invasion of Biafraland by the Nigerian Army. “We shall also remember all those killed in the struggle for the restoration of Biafra Independence since August 2015 when the army shot dead Mr. Okafor in Onitsha on a peaceful march from Nkpor to Onitsha main town. Their sacrifice will neither be forgotten nor will it be in vain because come what may, this generation of IPOB must and will restore Biafra. “Nationwide general strike observed as a sit-at-home across Biafraland on September 14, 2018 is the only way we Biafrans can honour our fallen brethren and legitimately remind our northern oppressors and their collaborators in our midst that enough is enough! We do not want another Operation Python Dance or another mass murder of Biafra agitators and humiliation of our mothers in our land. Biafraland we state categorically must emerge a free nation under God, whether our enemies like it or not.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .