 Shehu Sani  Members of Sani’s Tudun-Wada constituency had issued him a suspension order despite the olive branch extended to him by President Muhammadu Buhari and other APC leaders for him not to defect from the party. Sani had threatened to leave the party with other aggrieved members before the intervention of Buhari and some APC stalwarts. While the state executive affirms the sanction, the chairman, Emmanuel Jakada, holds that the suspension is unconstitutional. At the back of the state chairman is the senator’s Ward 6, which describes the suspension as null and void. According to Jakada, a serving senator cannot be suspended on the pages of newspapers. A statement signed by Ward 6 chairman, Ibrahim Togo, quoted Tudun-Wada North chapter of APC as insisting that the decision to suspend Sani was based on the constitution of the party. “We, the Tudun-Wada North Ward 6 exco of APC in Kaduna South council, wish to affirm our decision on the indefinite suspension of Senator Shehu Sani.” Jakada told The Guardian: “Look, suspension does not come from the pages of newspapers. However, at the local government, there must be a committee to find out the allegations. There are a lot of constitutional processes to be followed before you can pronounce somebody suspended. “As the chairman, I have set up a committee to reconcile the aggrieved members. So I expected that if there was any issue with any of the aggrieved members, it is supposed to be directed to the reconciliation committee. “I am so surprised that I am hearing this from you. I have not seen anything like that on my table. I don’t believe that the right thing, according to the constitution, has been done.” Togo added: “[Sani] should apologise to the government and people of Kaduna for frustrating the $350 million loan meant to develop the state. “We cannot justify the pain to which the disappointed voters of Kaduna have been subjected by the senator’s uncooperative and selfish attitude over the World Bank loan.” Chairman, APC Ward 6, Alhaji Abbas Anni, stated: “The attention of the substantive APC executives in Ward 6, Tudun-Wada, has been drawn to the new political gimmick issued by some stooges purporting to be reaffirming the so-called suspension of Senator Sani from APC. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .