 PVC  The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has denied that it was planning to release unclaimed Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) to the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state.The denial followed allegation by the Peoples Democratic Party that it had compromised on the over 500, 000 unclaimed voters cards.The state Resident Electoral Commission (REC), Segun Agbaje said the commission would not compromise its integrity, by allowing desperate politicians to hijack the electoral process. He explained that he had told the participating political parties that the unclaimed PVCs were intact and would not be released to anybody, except their rightful owners. But, the PDP in a statement in Osogbo by its Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Diran Odeyemi, alleged that some influential members of the APC were conniving to collect the PVCs. Odeyemi claimed that APC wants to use the PVCs to facilitate its victory since its unpopular candidate cannot win the September 22 election. Odeyemi further alleged that some people called ‘APC agents’ have been buying PVCs from unsuspecting voters in places considered to be the stronghold of PDP in the state.He warned that the move to reduce the voting strength of the party would not save the party from defeat.He urged the APC to wake up to the reality of its impending defeat, no matter how hard it tries to circumvent the people’s wish. The statement reads: “Since the ‘see and buy’ that APC used in Ekiti may not work in Osun, the party is looking for other means, except free and fair election, to win the state for it’s unpopular candidate.”“The PDP implored the security agents to monitor more closely, the activities of senior INEC officials, as well as those of APC bigwigs. Meanwhile, the governorship candidate of the PDP, Senator Ademola Adeleke, has appealed to the electorate to collect their PVCs. He made the call yesterday in Osogbo through a statement by his Director of Media and Publicity, Olawale Rasheed. Adeleke said the collection of PVCs was an important aspect of the election that requires the participation of every eligible voter.He urged collection of the PVCs for them to improve their lot, and promised not to disappoint them if he wins the poll. Adeleke, who currently represents Osun West at the Senate promised to be a governor for the people, by the people and of the people.“All workers deserve their pay. Our government will address workers’ entitlement and welfare, if elected.“I have the capacity to deliver on this and other key programmes as contained in our 6-point agenda,’’ he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .