 Ogbonnaya Onu  Minister of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, revealed this at a rally of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State. National chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole, was at the rally, which received defectors from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), including Senator Sonni Ogbuoji; former Minister of Power and Steel, Chief Goddy Ogbaga; former Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Bernard Odoh; and former Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Chief Augustine Nwankwegu. Onu noted he pleaded with people of the South East in 2015 not to put their eggs in one basket, but that his pleadings fell on deaf ears. “Today, I want them to compare the 16 years of PDP with the three years of APC. “The time has come for the South East to be in the mainstream of Nigerian politics by voting for President Buhari and APC in 2019,” he added. According to Oshiomhole, the current security challenge in the country is devoid of religious or ethnic colouration. At another forum, Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi chided Oshiomhole for asking him to apologise for allegedly refusing an APC faction in Ebonyi the use of Pa Ngele Oruta International Stadium for a rally. Umahi’s Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Emmanuel Uzor, described the statement as not just childish but pure blackmail aimed at gaining public sympathy. “It is very shameful for Oshiomhole to have made the statement credited to him while in the state. He has not disappointed Nigerians on his usual macabre dance when he said Governor Umahi denied a faction of his party usage of Pa Ngele Oruta International Stadium, which is undergoing reconstruction. It became more childish considering that he had earlier called Umahi on phone and informed him of his coming, knowing well that the rally had been shifted to August 11. “One would have expected Oshiomhole, as a senior comrade to show respect to a sitting governor, if he was not hypocritical in his alleged relationship and tolerance for opposition. But he decided to fly into Abakaliki, enjoy the ambience of a serene environment and drive round a beautiful city with the best road network in the country and then mount the podium and start spewing his usual political blackmail, which he has been known for. “More worrisome is his visible silence over the factions in his party in the state and his inability to fuse the divided party into one, but has descended so low to demand apology from a sitting governor over a stadium that is under construction,” Umahi said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .