Hyperpigmentation is the darkening of an area of skin caused by increased production of melanin. The most common type of hyperpigmentation is post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation. This occurs when a skin injury heals and leaves a flat area of discolouration behind. It is commonly found among acne sufferers. As with all skin issues, hyperpigmentation is treatable but takes time, commitment and lifestyle changes. Here are suggestions that can help you treat hyperpigmentation: Clear Skin> Photo: Pinterest Hyperpigmentation gets worse with increased sun exposure. Sunscreens that contain either zinc oxide or titanium dioxide can block out most of the rays that will darken the spots. Invest in a foundation (if you’re a frequent makeup wearer) or moisturiser with built-in SPF to protect your skin. If you’re looking for a new moisturiser, try the Aveeno Positively Radiant Daily Facial Moisturiser with Broad Spectrum SPF 30. It protects your skin using the SPF and leaves it looking radiant and beautiful. Skincare products with face acids work by exfoliating the top layer of your skin. Whenever you exfoliate with a face acid, new skin cells emerge to take the place of the old ones. This helps even out your skin tone. When looking for treatment with face acids, look for products that include alpha hydroxy acids, such as glycolic, lactic, citric, malic or tartaric acid. Other popular face acids are azelaic acid, kojic acid, salicylic acid, and vitamin C (in the form of l-ascorbic acid). Make sure you use a product with an acid content of 10 % or less. Higher concentrations are best left to a dermatologist. Read More: Science Has Discovered A Bug That Turns Blood Into Type-O One face acid to try is The Ordinary Glycolic Acid 7% Toning Solution. Use it once a day before bed, and wake up with smoother and fresher looking skin. Laser treatment. Photo: Pinterest Hyperpigmentation treatments at the dermatologists If wearing sunscreen and using face acids don’t work, you may need to visit your dermatologist for medical-grade treatments. Some of those treatments include laser treatments, chemical peels, microdermabrasion and micro-needling. Your dermatologist will examine your skin and let you know the best treatment for your skin. Sometimes, hyperpigmentation is a symptom of an underlying issue. If at home treatments don’t work, it’s best to visit the doctor