 Aerial view of Victoria Island, Lagos  “Building control is the major problem because you would rarely see a planning officer approving something that doesn’t conform to the regulation on paper. If we go against the right plans, urban area has a way of fighting back. The Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA) is relatively new and most of the hotels we are talking about have been in existence for over ten years and so it’s a problem to control”.“Professionals within the built sector also have a blame too, because they are suppose to pi-point disparities between designs on paper and what is on project site”, he stated.
  
Prof. Odunwaye who is also an architect called for strict monitoring of plan approvals and engagement of highly knowledgeable officers to oversee issues of the built industry.For the President of Nigerian Institute of Town Planners, Luka Bulus Achi, every service point suppose to have a design capacity as to how many cars it could accommodate but in a situation where there too many guests, people park anyhow in their locality.He “Many of the car parks in churches, hotels and offices are fixed but we keep adding more cars and population keeps increasing leading to chaos in urban locations. The issue of control is also there and I believe that it’s the government that should do their best in that regard. But in recent times, the indiscipline has grown too a level that officials just do what suite them and don’t care about the regulations”. “The planners make an anticipatory projections overtime and give approvals on the number of cars a place would take but must importantly, authorities need to know where to put certain land uses like; offices, churches and hotels, it must be selective in relations to the rest of traffic movement of the city. So that it would not add unnecessarily to traffic problems rather reduces congestions.
 
According to him, there was the need to declare car ownership in the city while people must as well shun the toga or status symbol of driving to every location.
“Our public transport system must be improved on, to encourage the people in using public utilities. People always feel that they should always drive their own car to every places”.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .