 Grab taken from a handout video captured by security cameras on July 22, 2018 and released by the Parana State Court, showing Brazilian Luis Felipe Manvailer assaulting his wife Tatiane Spitzner in a lift at their apartment in the town of Guarapuava, in the Brazilian southern state of Parana, a case that has shocked Brazil.<br />Images taken from several security cameras show Manvailer brutally beating his wife in the parking garage, elevator and corridor of their fifth-floor apartment moments before another camera shows her body plummeting onto the sidewalk. Minutes later he is seen taking the lift back down and returning with the apparent lifeless body of his wife. He then cleans blood stains from the elevator and leaves the place. Manvailer was caught by the police and is being investigated for murder. / AFP PHOTO / Brazil’s Parana State Court / HO /  Hundreds of people attended a rally called by the lawyers’ association of Curitiba, capital of the state of Parana where Tatiane Spitzner died on July 22. Dressed in white, the crowd marched through the city before releasing a cloud of white balloons, footage on the association’s Facebook page showed. Spitzner’s husband is in custody, accused of battering his wife, preventing her from escaping, then forcing her into the elevator of their apartment building in Guarapuava before throwing her from a window. Lawyers for the man have said he is not guilty and a report on G1 news site Friday quoted the suspect as telling psychological evaluators that he thought his wife had jumped of her own accord. He claimed “he doesn’t remember what happened,” the psychological report said. Where there is no doubt is that the suspect started by beating and kicking his wife repeatedly. Footage of the assault was captured on security cameras, causing an outcry when first broadcast on national television earlier this month. Activists have seized on the shocking footage as an example of a far wider problem of domestic violence and femicide in Latin America’s biggest country. A respected annual report released this week by the non-profit Brazilian Forum for Public Security found a six percent increase in murders of women in 2017. These included 1,133 deaths as a result of femicide, or victims being deliberately targeted because they were female. The 60,018 rapes were up more than eight percent compared to 2016. The victim’s father, Jorge Spitzner, attended the Curitiba demonstration Saturday, where he said that gender-related hate crimes “plague our country,” G1 reported.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .