 Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe  Abaribe, who is the chairman of the southeast caucus, said he had been approached to replace Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu. The senator, who represents Abia Central, revealed that those championing the course claimed that Ekweremadu has overstayed in the seat that was not reserved for Enugu State alone. He spoke in Enugu during the presentation of performance report of 2017 federal capital budget and southeast region. Some non-governmental organisations as Hope Givers Initiative, Christian Aid, Partnership to Engage, Reform and Learn, organised the forum as part of efforts to make governance work for the people. Abaribe said however “no senator from the zone is interested in the position of deputy senate president, but are committed to protecting that office as long as Ekweremadu remains there.” But the Enugu State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has vowed to ensure that Ekweremadu does not return to the senate in the 2019 general election. The party called on the Special Assistant to the President on Judicial Reforms Sector and National Coordinator of the Open Governance Partnership, Mrs. Juliet Ibekaku, to accept to contest the seat for Enugu West senatorial district. The party leaders made the call during their solidarity visit to Ibekaku at her Egede/Umuoka ward in Udi Local Council Area. They said Ekweremadu, having occupied the senate seat in the last. 12 years would have done 16 years on completion of his present tenure. They said it was not only unfair, but negates the true spirit of democracy. Ibekaku promised to make up her mind on the issue and communicate to them at the right time. She urged party faithful to continue to conduct their affairs in line with the good governance principle of the present administration. Abaribe expressed concern about the constant rift over approved budgets between the executive and legislature.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .