 Fruits and vegetables. Photo: Al Peakes and Sons  Although, most people find it hard to engage in exercise due to the nature of their jobs or for other reasons, experts have suggested that using a variety of methods for weight control is vital for maintaining a healthy body weight.One consequence of overweight is Obesity, which is a medical condition where excess body fat accumulates to the extent that it may have an adverse effect on health. It is defined by Body Mass Index (BMI) and further evaluated in terms of fat distribution via the waist–hip ratio and total cardiovascular risk factors.However, various techniques have been listed for people to adopt in order to lose weight without diet or exercise, they include: Enhancing your cooking skills
Learning how to cook a variety of meals, according to experts, may aid weight loss, while understanding how to prepare meals and developing better skills in the kitchen can be a powerful way to lose weight without reducing food intake.According to researchers, people who have more knowledge about how to cook different foods are more likely to eat a wide variety of highly nutritious ingredients, including fruit and vegetables, which are great for weight loss.The researchers are increasingly linking weight gain and obesity to poor cooking skills, noting that people who are not confident in the kitchen can try taking a cookery class or watching cooking videos online. Consuming more protein
A small study in young women found that eating high-protein yogurt as an afternoon snack reduced hunger and calorie intake at later meals.Protein is an essential part of a healthful diet, which is necessary for increasing growth and efficient metabolism. It is said to increase feelings of fullness and delays hunger. Consuming more fiber
Eating fiber found in fruit, vegetables, legumes, and whole grains helps reduce excessive weight. Fiber is different than other foods because the body does not digest it in the small intestine. Instead, the food moves to the large intestine, where fermentation occurs. Fiber increases fullness, slow down digestion, increases food transit time and nutrient absorption and prevents constipation.People are however, are advised to include more fiber in their diets by eating fruit every day, taking plenty of vegetables and adding a whole grains in their diet Try a probiotic
Probiotics are beneficial bacteria that are integral to digestion. Recent research links gut and brain function and suggests that probiotics can influence weight, fat mass, and mood.Humans act as the host of these bacteria and provide them with food, including fiber. In turn, the bacteria benefit the intestine and a person’s general health. Probiotic provides energy for the gut wall and liver cell, specific fatty acids that have anti-cancer properties and regulating body weight.Research has suggested that probiotics could help prevent or manage obesity. People can buy over-the-counter (OTC) probiotics in pharmacies or online. Sleep more 
A good night’s rest is essential for general health and weight maintenance. Poor sleep disrupts important hormones, including those involved in metabolism.According to experts, getting less than six hours of sleep a night can increase a person’s risk of being overweight or obese. Reduce stress
Increased stress levels can also disrupt hormonal balance, according to experts. During stress, the body produces hormones called glucocorticoids, as too many glucocorticoids can increase a person’s appetite, leading to weight gain.Stress also triggers emotional eating, which is when a person eats unhealthful foods to try to control and improve a negative mood.To reduce stress a person must engage in regular exercise, reduce caffeine intake, practice meditation or mindfulness, say no to non-essential commitments, spend time outdoors and try out yoga. Taking more vitamin D
Some research indicates that those with low vitamin D blood levels are more likely to be obese and not get enough exercise.Low Vitamin D intake results in the following health conditions, which include: metabolic syndrome, depression and anxiety, type 1 and type 2 diabetes, osteoporosis and osteoarthritis.People can get vitamin D from the sun and some foods, which include, egg yolks, fatty fish, certain mushrooms, and fortified foods.
Culled from Medicalnewstoday.com  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .