 In this handout photograph received from Maxwell for WMOF18, Pope Francis prays at Knock Shrine in County Mayo on August 26, 2018, during his visit to Ireland to attend the 2018 World Meeting of Families.   / AFP PHOTO / WMOF2018/MAXWELL / Handout / RESTRICTED TO EDITORIAL USE – MANDATORY CREDIT “AFP PHOTO / WMOF18 / MAXWELL”  Archbishop Carlo Maria Vigano, a former Vatican envoy to the United States, on Saturday said he had told Francis of the allegations against prominent US cardinal Theodore McCarrick in 2013. But rather than punish McCarrick, who was forced to resign last month, Vigano said Francis had lifted sanctions imposed on him by his predecessor pope Benedict XVI. “Corruption has reached the very top of the Church’s hierarchy,” Vigano said in an eleven-page letter published in the National Catholic Register and several conservative US Catholic publications. But the pope refused to address the allegation on Sunday. “I will not say a word about that. I think that the communique speaks for itself,” Francis said on his plane as he flew back from Dublin to Rome. Read More: Pressure mounts on pope for tougher action on abuse scandals The timing of the letter’s release — right in the middle of Francis’s landmark trip to Ireland — has raised speculation of a campaign against the Argentinian pontiff by conservatives in the Church. Francis told journalists to “read the communique attentively and make your own judgement,” referring to Vigano’s letter. “You have sufficient journalistic capacity to draw conclusions,” he went on. “When a little time has passed and you have the conclusions perhaps I will talk,” he added. – ‘A putsch is afoot’ –
“Make no mistake.  This is a coordinated attack on Pope Francis,” said an editorial article on the website of the progressive National Catholic Reporter weekly. “A putsch is afoot and if the US bishops do not, as a body, stand up to defend the Holy Father in the next 24 hours, we shall be slipping towards schism,” the author Michael Sean Winters wrote. “The enemies of Francis have declared war.” Nicolas Seneze, the Rome correspondent for the French daily La Croix, echoed that there is “a clear desire to attack Francis,” telling AFP that “those who regard Francis as dangerous will stop at nothing.” Bishop Vigano, 77, who was a papal nuncio in Washington between 2011 and 2016, said that Benedict XVI imposed canonical sanctions against McCarrick in the late 2000s. McCarrick was forced to leave his seminary and live a life of penance after former Vatican ambassadors in Washington, now dead, reported him for “gravely immoral” behaviour with seminarians and priests. Vigano claimed Francis asked him about McCarrick when he took office in June 2013, but that the pope ignored his warnings. He said the pope “knew from at least June 23, 2013, that McCarrick was a serial predator,” adding that “he knew that he was a corrupt man, he covered for him to the bitter end”. The pope accepted the resignation of McCarrick, now 88, in July, making him just the second cardinal ever to lose his status. During his visit to Ireland on Sunday the pope “begged for God’s forgiveness” for past clerical abuse scandals, which have badly damaged the image of the Church in the Catholic stronghold. His trip was met with enthusiastic crowds but also protests, with about 5,000 abuse victims and supporters attending a “Stand for Truth” rally in the capital Dublin. It was the first papal trip to Ireland since John Paul II spoke in front of 1.5 million people in 1979. – Homosexuality tendancies –
On the plane back to Rome after the two-day trip, the pope also commented on homosexuality. He recommended that parents seek psychiatric help for children who show homosexual tendencies. France’s Equality Minister Marlene Schiappa attacked those comments as “incomprehensible and indefensible” The Vatican on Monday rolled back on the pope’s psychiatry idea, and withdrew the comment from its official verbatim record oh his trip. The Catholic Church’s standing has been badly dented by the abuse scandals. Stronghold Ireland has largely shed its traditional Catholic mores, voting earlier this year to legalise abortion after approving same-sex marriage in 2015. Multiple probes in Ireland have found Church leaders protected hundreds of predatory priests and former Irish president Mary McAleese revealed this month that the Vatican had sought to keep Church documents inaccessible to government investigators. The abuse scandals in Ireland are part of a worldwide crisis for the Vatican. A devastating report earlier this month accused more than 300 priests in the US state of Pennsylvania of abusing more than 1,000 children since the 1950s. The US based Survivors’ Network for those abused by priests (SNAP) said in a statement that if Vigano’s allegations are true “this situation provides a dramatic illustration of the gap between rhetoric and decisive action”. “Pope Francis has the power, but apparently does not have the will, to effect necessary change,” the group added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .