 Co-founder The Future Awards Africa, Adebola Williams (standing) speaking to participants at the event  Mentoring, at its core, guarantees young people that there is someone, who cares about them, assures them they are not alone in dealing with day-to-day challenges, and makes them feel like they matter. Research confirms that quality-mentoring relationships have powerful positive effects on young people in a variety of personal, academic, and professional situations. Ultimately, mentoring connects a young person to personal growth and development, and social and economic opportunity. Yet one in three young people will grow up without this critical asset. As part of its support for young talents, Sujimoto Construction Company, a creative and innovative luxury real estate firm, recently held an intensive and engaging One-day Internship & Mentorship Programme, which was widely attended by young Nigerian students aged 12- 22 years. With participants specially selected from different institutions from all over Nigeria, the event is part of the company’s CSR initiative, which aims at equipping young Nigerians to be self-sufficient and reminding them of their true potential. Chaired by the Chief Mentor of the day- Chief Dele Momodu, who compared the Sujimoto entrepreneurship story with the Ovation vision, he buttressed the fact that successful entrepreneurs take ordinary situations and make them extraordinary. Momodu urged the young people to go beyond innovation to having solid plans and putting in the hard work required to earn them success and recognition. He shared his experience with his own mentor and hero of Nigerian Democracy, Chief MKO Abiola and how being under Chief Abiola’s tutelage set him on the path of greatness. A host of successful celebrities including Mr.P of P-square, Architect Tosin Oshinowo, Nedu of Wazobia FM, Bankole Omishore, Debola Williams, Seyi Tinubu, Bovi, Fuad Atanda Lawal, Hon. Folajimi Mohammed, Dr. Chima Anyaso, Stephanie Busari, TJ Saro, Ibrahim Babajide Obanikoro, Yemi Adefarakan, McLively, Dabota Lawson, and other were also present to share their own success stories and inspire the young attendees. Speaking on the initiative, the CEO of Sujimoto, Sijibomi Ogundele disclosed that the event has helped him to see other potentials and business ideas from young talents, who desire to win. “It has thought me that our true potential is in our youth and we need to find ways of supporting these talents to actualise their dreams. Nigeria is full of great potentials, so, this event is reminding us that we have the capacity to change the narratives.” Ogundele, who has constantly been vocal about his empathy and passion for helping young people achieve their dreams and not waiting for the government, shared his success story with the students and took them through the creative process of the Sujimoto Brand, using their company’s recent project in Banana Island – The GiulianoBySujimoto, as a case-study. He spoke on the difficulties encountered during the Lorenzo Era and the challenges faced while raising money for Giuliano, but with perseverance, he was able to achieve success and satisfy the needs of clients. Over 200 students and young entrepreneurs were given the royal treatment at the event, as they all went home with luxury gift bags loaded with exciting gifts items, while 1 Mac Air Laptop, 2 Iphone X and 10 Luxury Smart Watches were given out exclusively to participants with the most innovative business ideas. Among the winners of the Iphone X Luxury Smart phone, was 17-year-old Sofowa Fisayo, a secondary school leaver, whose dynamic Movie Set idea fascinated the celebrity judges and audience.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .