Support Groups Present Presidential Nomination/Expression of Interest Form to Atiku Abubakar on August 31, 2018. Photo: Twitter/SpokesManAtiku Support groups of former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar on Friday purchased and presented the presidential nomination and expression of interest forms of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the former Nigerian vice president. The groups, who stormed the headquarters of the Atiku Presidential Campaign Organization in Abuja, said they donated to raise the funds for the PDP forms to express their commitment to support Atiku in his 2019 presidential bid. Atiku joined two other PDP presidential hopeful who had purchased the party presidential form as Senate president Bukola Saraki purchased his form today, and Sokoto State governor, Aminu Tambuwal picked his form on Thursday. Leaders of the groups who spoke at the presentation ceremony applauded the former Vice President and reaffirmed their belief that Atiku has the experience and the capacity to steer the ship of the country into a brighter future from 2019. Princess Adekemi-Adesanya Eboda, national President and global coordinator for Women and Youth Support for Atiku (WAYS), said that Nigerians particularly women are looking up to Atiku to salvage the country from the complexity of the APC-led maladministration. “I speak the voice of millions of mothers in Nigeria who bear the brunt of the gale of jobs losses in the country and I speak on behalf of women of this country urging you to rescue Nigeria from this current bad situation,” Eboda said. “And to show you that we are solidly behind you, we have chosen to purchase your nomination form and expression of interest form from the PDP to contest for president in 2019 and we shall give you all of our support.” While responding to the gesture, Atiku said the decision of the support groups was historic as it was the first time in his political career that his supporters would be purchasing a nomination form for him. “I have been in politics for the past three decades and in those three decades I have only been on the ballot for the presidential election only once and that was in 2007,” Atiku said. “But not once in those three decades have I received this much love from the people as you have done today by choosing to purchase nomination forms on my behalf. Ahmed Makarfi and Rabiu Kwankwaso have although earlier declared their intentions to run for the presidency but are yet to purchase their forms. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .