 Kike Mudiaga  One of the artistes, who have become a signature tune for this genre of music, is Kikelomo Mudiaga. The renowned worship leader, songwriter and lyricist, on Sunday, August 5, 2018, birthed her first album, Deep Calls to Deep. Held at The Rock Cathedral, House on The Rock, Lekki, the concert/album launch attracted high networth guests and the crème of Nigerian gospel music genre. The 14-track album is a compilation of songs birthed in search of more depth, more of Jesus and a closer relationship with God. Songs that make up the album include, You Are, Prevailed, Hands of a Worshipper, Like Jesus, I See You, When I Say That Name, Church on Fire, Worthy, A Call to Worship, God That Answers Prayers, Nobody Like You, Awake My Soul, Agbe O Ga and By Your Grace. “It is a collection of heartfelt expressions of worship and a reflection of a desperate passion to touch the father’s heart and fall in love with Him all over again,” Mudiaga says. The album, which is produced by Rotimi ‘Keys’ Akinfewa, features some of Nigeria’s finest gospel artistes such as, Nathaniel Bassey, Onos Ariyo, Mairo Ese and Prospa Ochimana. In less than two weeks of release, the album is currently trending at top five on tecno boomplaymusic with over 14,000 streams and has received numerous accolades from fans and colleagues. “This album is one that will outlive many generations, every song is an experience, I highly recommend this to everyone,” Tim Godfrey reveals. “Kike is one of the sweetest and purest hearts in worship out there, glad to have been a part of this, love track 11 in particular it is one I instantly connected with as it is a powerful prayer sound in the frame for the Hallelujah Challenge,” Bassey retorts. “Her music carries a strong message of hope and restoration.” The core of her passion is to call people back to the place of quietness and deep communion with Jesus. For her, “kingdom matters are all that really matters.” Over the years, Kike has released a couple of singles including, Church On Fire, featuring Nathaniel Bassey, and Worthy, “a powerful song of total relentless worship to the only friend, father and God who is worthy of it all. It is the last track born into the Deep to Deep Album Project.” Her debut single, Gold, featured House on the Rock’s Senior Pastor, Paul Adefarasin. In this song, Kike exhorts her listeners that no matter what they are going through, they are surely coming out as pure gold. This message is further re-affirmed by Pastor Paul’s sermon in the song. “Gold is a song taken from the words of 1 Peter 1:7 (KJV): That the trial of your faith, being much more precious than of gold that perisheth …” Her second single, titled, Baba, with the production dexterity of Wilson Joel, is a mid-tempo tune with Eastern influenced percussion and guitar hook. The song speaks of the goodness of God, employing vernacular, which makes it regionally peculiar and relatable. The anointed songwriter has shared the stage with a plethora of prophetic minstrels like Donnie McClurkin, Bassey, Sammie Okposo, Micah Stampley, Israel Houghton and Don Moen to mention but a few. Kike is also a prose writer, and over the years, has devoted much of her writing to piecing together articles for magazines and blogs and has featured in several TV and radio talk shows. She has honed her skills in freelance editing and from a wealth of literal experience, had finally put together her own masterpiece, After The Storm Came. Her strong message of hope comes from firsthand experience of a series of personal traumatic trials. She reaches out to the hurting through her initiative called, The Anchor, a forum for people who have been through tragic traumas and are dealing with the aftermath of life’s fierce storms. Kike studied English at the University of Lagos and obtained her master’s degree in International Educational Management at the University of Leeds, United Kingdom. She currently runs an educational consultancy and is married to a Man of God, Benjamin Mudiaga, and together, they have lovely children. The album is available on I-tunes Store, Amazon Music, Google Play Music Store, Tecno Boomplay Music and other digital music outlets.