Want to give your sex life a little boost? It’s simple: exercise. Exercise increases energy, tones muscles, burns fat and improves your mood and self-image. But for more reasons than you may know, exercise can also improve your sex life. You’re only one workout away from a better sex life. For instance, research shows that if you burn as little as 200 additional calories a day (about 20 minutes of exercise), you can lower your risk of erectile dysfunction. It will also help you enjoy sex more and be sexually aroused easily. In addition to cardio and strength training, stretching also loosens you up, enabling you to experiment with different positions. So even if you already have a pretty great sex life, try incorporating these exercises and stretches into your workout routine and reap the benefits in the bedroom. Fitness couple. PHOTO: sweshfit.com Kegels are a beneficial exercise both for men and women. They improve endurance and control by toning and strengthening the pubococcygeus (PC) muscles (the muscles that stop the flow of urine) and the perineal muscles (the muscles that support erectile rigidity and provide the power behind ejaculation). Plank. Photo: In My Hair Holding a plank is one most effective ways to increase your endurance and stamina at the gym and in the bedroom. Planks give your arms staying power for missionary or other on-top positions. They also strengthen your core, which helps to improve thrust and supports your back to prevent injury. Push-ups Push-ups. Photo: Body Symmetry MD Just like planks, push-ups strengthen your upper body and core, providing increased all-around endurance and enabling you to rock those on-top positions during sex. If you commit to doing them regularly, you’ll notice a difference in your staying power, your ability to maintain a strong thrust and your overall core and upper-body strength during sex. Squats Squats. PHOTO: Womens Workout Channel Squats are great for toning and shaping the legs and booty. But all that blood pumping below the waist can also improve your ability to become aroused during sex. Squats are known to increase testosterone levels and to increase blood flow to the pelvic region (making orgasms more intense), they’re an incredible exercise for enhancing sex. They’ll also strengthen your lower body for a more powerful thrust both while you’re on top and while your partner is on top.