As part of efforts to empower youths in the country, Dufil Prima Foods, has donated educational materials and cash to the Leadership Empowerment and Resource Network (LEARN).An initiative of the former First Lady of Lagos State, Mrs. Abimbola  Fashola, LEARN is a non-profit programme committed towards leadership  development, entrepreneurial skill acquisition, sexuality education, character development, vocational skills acquisition for young persons between the ages of 9 to 17. Speaking during the donation at LEARN Centre in Lagos, Group Public Relations and Events Manager, Dufil Prima Foods, Tope Ashiwaju, said the firm’s 11 years partnership with LEARN was to empower young people with skills needed to succeed in life. Ashiwaju said: “As a brand, Indomie is committed to the total welfare of young people. Young people need skills to survive in the future, and vocational education is key in developing those skills. Indomie realised it early enough that it can be part of that preparations for the future of young people through LEARN. Like every other year, Indomie is partnering LEARN this year to educate and create a better future for Nigeria’s teeming young persons through donations we hope will go a long way in assisting the initiative to achieve its objectives.” Ashiwaju advised the LEARN programme participants to be serious with their learning outcomes, adding the brand was ever ready to contribute to the total development of Nigerians in all ramifications. He told the participants that Indomie as a brand has a strong relationship with LEARN, adding that the relationship was not going to die soon. LEARN Chief Operating Officer, Mrs Ronke Oguntoyinbo, commended Dufil Prima Foods for her unwavering support the LEARN initiative in particular and youths development in general.
“We are excited over this donation by Dufil Prima Foods Plc. It shows that brands like Indomie Instant Noodles really appreciate what we are doing with LEARN. We are going to utilise these donations for the purpose they were donated for. That is the best way we can really show that we appreciate Dufil Prima Foods Plc as partner in this initiative,” Oguntoyinbo said. Speaking on behalf of the students, Master Oke Olumide, a student of LEARN thanked Dufil Prima Foods for supporting the initiative, saying “we really appreciate Dufil Prima Foods for this great support and encouragement.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .