 Former Brazilian president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva gestures during a campaign rally to launch his presidential candidacy for the upcoming October elections, at the Workers Central Union (CUT) headquarters in Sao Paulo, Brazil on January 25, 2018.<br />A Brazilian appeals court Wednesday upheld ex-president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva’s conviction for corruption, dealing a body blow to his hopes of running for re-election this year. The three-judge panel sitting in the southern city of Porto Alegre unanimously ruled that his original 9.5-year jail sentence be extended to more than 12 years. Lula was defiant, telling he intends to run for the presidency despite the court setback.<br />/ AFP PHOTO / Nelson Almeida  Party officials said top members of Lula’s Workers Party (PT) are planning a march in Brasilia to register his candidacy with electoral officials just hours before the deadline. While he was nominated earlier this month to be his party’s candidate, Lula is expected to be barred from running by the country’s top electoral court since Brazilian law bars candidates whose conviction has been upheld on appeal, which is Lula’s situation. Lula has been jailed since April but still leads all election polling. The PT will use all appeals to delay any final ruling on Lula’s registration and say that he is their only candidate. Lula has chosen former Sao Haddad to lead the PT ticket when he is likely barred, according to party sources. Lula governed Brazil for two terms from 2003-2011 and left office with a record approval rating of 87 per cent due to a booming economy and social programmes that lifted millions of Brazilians from poverty. His popularity has been hurt by corruption indictments and scandals involving his party, which was ousted from power in 2016 when his hand-picked successor was impeached for breaking budget rules. Still, polls show about one-third of Brazilians would vote for him if he is allowed to run, almost double his nearest rival, far-right candidate Jair Bolsonaro, and many of his supporters will vote for whoever replaces him in the race To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .