Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar (left); Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State, National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Uche Secondus and former governor of the state, Attahiru Bafarawa, during a courtesy visit to the governor by PDP national leadership at the Government House over the recent killings in Gandi, Rabah Local Council of the state… yesterday. Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) has alleged that President Muhammadu Buhari’s two-week vacation in London is a strategy designed with senators of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to impeach senate president, Bukola Saraki and his deputy, Ike Ekweremadu. PDP also alleged that the president’s departure to London is to exonerate him from the planned invasion of the National Assembly. President Buhari announced he will be in London during his 10-day holiday which begins August 3 to August 13. Vice president Yemi Osinbajo will be in acting capacity pending his return. “President Buhari is now jetting out of the country so as to appear innocent and oblivious of the political terrors about to be unleashed on the National Assembly,” PDP spokesman, Kola Ologbodiyan said in a statement. “The party is aware of plots already perfected in a meeting, on Wednesday night, between the Presidency and some compromised All Progressives Congress (APC) senators, who are now in the minority, to forcefully reconvene the Senate with protection from security agencies, with a view to impeach Senate President Bukola Saraki and Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu.” PDP said it “knows that the desperation to illegally take control of the National Assembly is part of the design to undermine our democratic institutions and completely foist a dictatorial regime on our nation.” The party stated that the planned invasion by the presidency is also a bid to cover the “atrocious and humongous corruption of the Buhari administration”, which the National Assembly is set to expose. “It is clear that President Buhari and the APC are hugely terrified and distressed by the gale of defections from their fold and have resorted to underhand methods, threats and intimidation, irrespective of the damage being inflicting on the polity,” Ologbodiyan said. PDP also accused the APC and president Buhari of sponsoring the failed attempt by eight Benue House of Assembly members to impeach Governor Samuel Ortom. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .