Senate President Bukola Saraki (left) and Speaker Yakubu Dogara during a joint session of the Nigerian National Assembly. The leadership of the Nigeria’s National Assembly has insisted that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) lack the required numbers to impeach Senate president Bukola Saraki and speaker Yakubu Dogara. Saraki who recently defected from APC to PDP has been under fire by the APC to vacate his position as senate president. Dogara on the other side is yet to renounce his membership of the APC, but has also been accused of anti-party activities against the APC Both lawmakers alleged that Tuesday morning invasion of the Assembly complex by operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS) was an attempt by the executive and APC lawmakers to reposition leadership of the National Assembly. “To reconvene, there is a process which has to be followed. Also, it should be clear that these Senators who are camped somewhere know the procedure for changing the leadership of the Senate,” Saraki and Dogara in a joint statement. “Both the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Presidency officials masterminding this illegality know that they do not have the numbers to lawfully carry out this action.” The lawmakers claimed there was indications “that some Senators who are pro-executive arm are being camped somewhere here in Abuja and they are being compelled to sign an impeachment notice that would later be brought to the Assembly complex.” They called on the international community to prevail on the situation noting that the Senate chamber will be forced open to enable an illegal change of leadership should the plans of APC succeed. “This is a throw-back to the inglorious days of military rule where dissent is not tolerated and freedom of association and other fundamental human rights are willfully and carelessly violated,” they said. “We urge Nigerians and the international community to condemn this illegal invasion of the National Assembly complex and the attempt to asphyxiate the legislature as undemocratic, uncivilized and irresponsible.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .