 Lagos State Deputy Governor, Idiat Oluranti Adebule (second left), former deputy governor, Sinotu Ojikutu (right) and others at the Dodan Barracks praying ground in Ikoyi…. yesterday.  After observing the Eid-el-Kabir prayers at the Dodan Barracks prayer ground in Ikoyi, Lagos, yesterday, Adebule told journalists that love, peace and tolerance, as tenets of the Eid-el-Kabir celebration, fulfil obedience to God. She enjoined all to show love and ensure peaceful co-existence in their neighbourhood, urging them to eschew all forms of violence as the 2019 general elections approach. According to her, a violence-free election will demonstrate to the world that democracy has come to stay in Nigeria. “As we celebrate Sallah, we pray God for wisdom to choose love instead of hatred, peace instead of violence, and progress instead of stagnation. We must always remember the lesson of this celebration, which is fulfilment of promise and the show of great love by Almighty Allah to mankind. “We must always be conscious of fulfilling our promises, show love to our neighbours, be kind to fellow human beings, live peacefully with our neighbours and shun any act capable of disrupting public peace. I urge us to pray for peaceful co-existence, enhance national security and continued development of our dear state and country,” she added. Kosofe Council chairman, Hon. Afolabi Sofola, in his message, described Sallah as a period of reflection of godliness and show of love to mankind by God. He called on Nigerians to eschew violence and shun vices, as the Eid-el-Kabir celebration portrays peace. On the Sallah meat, he added: “You are not supposed to keep 90 per cent of the ram you kill in your refrigerator and be eating it for the next four or five months. You are to give large portion of it to the needy and keep a little, maybe 10 per cent, for yourself.” Speaker, Lagos State House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, lamented that politicians, rather than engage the youths meaningfully, use them as political thugs. Urging the youths to aspire for political positions rather than serve as thugs, he said: “If anybody wants to use you, tell such politician to bring his or her child. Do not allow yourself to be used. Show interest in politics because you are not too young to run.” However, Senator Gbenga Ashafa, representing Lagos East, urged political office holders to keep to their electoral promises for the good of the people. Chief Imam of Lagos, Alhaji Sulaimon Abou-Nolla, leading the Eid prayer, enjoined Nigerians to imbibe the spirit of sacrifice in their daily activities as exemplified by Prophet Mohammed. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .