Makarfi The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) should not destroy the zeal and determination of its members that have remained loyal and dedicated to the ideals of the party by ceding every available goodies to new entrants. The former caretaker committee chairman of PDP, Senator Ahmed Mohammed Makarfi has warned. Senator Makarfi who was speaking yesterday in Lokoja while on a visit to the party secretariat in continuation of his nationwide tour to solicit support for his presidential ambition also cautioned the party against destruction of the virtue of party loyalty and dedication by members. He warned against making unrealiseable promises to the returnees at the expense of loyal party members. He recalled the recent bitter experience when Modu Sheriff joined the party only to work for its disintegration cautioning that the party should be careful about whom they accept back into the party among the defectors. “We would never forget the mistake we made when Modu Sheriff was brought. Sheriff came from another party with well starched and long cap, they say he has millions, he has three jets, he will revive the party, but what did he do? “He was taking the party down, he was selling the party, I who was considered to be a bush boy without money, I was told to rescue the party and I rescued it. Why because people trusted me and they believed in my capacity.” He said the party emerged victorious people followed him based on trust so “when I said let us go this way they followed me and we came out victorious.” Continuing he said, “History may repeat itself if we are not careful, you will start seeing new players with all kinds of narratives, either money, either this or that, if we gamble with that, it will be the end of PDP I am serious. “The same narratives that were used at that time, God so kind we had time and we were able to overcome but in this case we don’t have that time. If we make that mistake that is the end of it.” He said the time between now and election is so short hence the party should be cautious warning that if it should make that mistake it would be a disaster not just for PDP but disaster for Nigeria. He said for some politicians at the slightest provocation they will just jump to another party. “Any little issue they will run away and a little while when they are not comfortable they will come back. “But we must be careful so that we don’t create the impression that it does not pay to be loyal or committed because it would discourage people from doing so and that will destroy the party.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .