In a man’s life, there are times when the decisions he makes when he is an emotional state determines his future. Emotions, subject to different interpretations, was the highlight of the week. The week brought with it, memories of the dead, power to influence change and new beginnings. Here is a rundown of what happened in the week: Beyonce for vogue. Photo Preen Queen Bey has been allowed to make her decisions regarding the September cover for Vogue. Vogue editor-in-chief, Anna Wintour, granted her the power to do so with everything that concerns its production. According to HuffPost, she will be choosing her captions, photos and dresses. The icon who has been promoting black culture is not putting a break to her steps as she will be using a 23-year-old black photographer, Tyler Mitchell. The last time Beyonce covered the magazine, she made history because she was not a part of the interview. This might be Wintour’s last cover and she is definitely making a statement with it. Eunice Atuejide. Photo Twitter Eunice_atuejide One of Nigeria’s presidential aspirant Eunice Atuejide who is running under the National Interest Party (NIP) has made it clear that she does not agree to the use of the term “Feminist” because of the different meanings it has. The 39-year-old stated this on her Twitter timeline in a series of tweets: “I actually hate it when people call me feminist because that word means too many things, many of which I DON’T LIKE! We all have a lot to offer, and equal weight must be given to our views… I’M NOT A FEMINIST!…Na by force? And who is a feminist? Blessing Okoedion. Photo Publicbroadcasting In recognition of the “World Day Against Trafficking in Persons”, a Nigerian Blessing Okoediona was given the US State Department award by Mike Pompeo and Ivanka Trump. Okoediona, a graduate of computer science, is one of the many victims who was lured into Europe for prostitution in the guise of the promise of a lucrative job. She is one of the few who found the courage to break free and has been agitating against it on international shores as well as assisting “survivors and lend a helping hand to those still subjected to the crime”. Wizkid. Photo Instagram Wizkid has kept us on our toes literally since he announced that something big was coming our way. He revealed in a tweet that he is now a proud ambassador with vodka brand Ciroc and this he did with style. With this, he joins the likes of Cassper Nyovest, Toke Makinwa, Tekno and Banky W. Before the big announcement, he appreciated the brands of which he is an ambassador: Pepsi, Nike, Dolce & Gabbana and tweeted “New Deal Alert! Officially with CIROC!!! Lets get it!! Big bag alert!”. When next you see him, show him your #CirocPhone. Lara-and-the-Beat-poster.-Photo-IMDb The mesmerising film, Lara and the Beat is now showing in cinemas. The film centres on the young and beautiful Giwa sisters caught in the middle of a financial scandal with their late parents’ Media Empire. The sisters are forced out of their privileged bubble and must learn to build their own future – through music and enterprise – to salvage their family’s past. The film features Seyi Shay, Somkele Iyamah, Chioma Akpotha, Vector, Chinedu Ikedieze, Uche Jombo, and DJ Xclusive. You can watch it at the cinemas near you. 