[File] Ogun State Governor Ibikunle Amosun; All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu; Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN); President Muhammadu Buhari; APC Governorship Candidate, Dr. Kayode Fayemi and APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole at the party’s mega rally in Ado-Ekiti…July 9, 2018. National leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) Bola Tinubu on Thursday said that the three years of President Muhammadu Buhari administration is not enough to re-engineer the country and judge its performance. President Buhari Buhari as an aspirant in 2015 campaigned on three key areas of reviving the country’s economy, improving security and fighting corruption. Tinubu who spoke at a Eid-el-Kabir celebration in Lagos stated that the previous administration have looted Nigeria’s treasury meant for successive governments to grow and develop the country. The former two-term governor of Lagos said despite the looting President Muhammadu Buhari is gradually restoring the hope of Nigerians. “Three years is not enough time for retouching, redevelopment and re-engineering the country. There is a lot of hope, there is a lot of expectation,” Tinubu said. He noted that the vision of president “will not take a magical touch to bring it to reality. It takes patience and perseverance,” “Nigerians adopted democracy; we are going to live through this democratic government. We need a President Buhari to retool and re-engineer, that is what he is doing in the economy and he is doing it gradually, otherwise we don’t want it to fall apart again,” Tinubu said. He alleged that previous governments “ate the seed of growth for breakfast. Therefore, there is nothing for lunch or dinner. Nothing to harvest that is why we talk about looters,” “Economic development and the future of the youth are crucial in the growth of any nation and we are taking care of that. You have to re-grow the economy, re-engineer it from bottom, during that process; it is always very difficult for ordinary people,” He urged Nigerians to keep hope in the APC led administration to deliver it’s campaign promises. “We were meticulous, dedicated and focused and we lifted the spirits of our people and that is why it is important for Nigerians to be focused now,” Tinubu said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .