 Inekwe  Several studies have shown that more women have dryness discomfort when having intercourse with their partners. Why is that? Lack of secretion of vaginal fluid is termed “dryness”. This maybe as a result of several factors: *Changes in Hormones. Estrogen is a hormone vital for vaginal health. Studies have shown that when there is reduction in its production in the body, a woman may likely experience dryness. Menopause, postpartum, breast feeding, chemotherapy and radiation are some of the causes of low estrogen level in the body. *Medication: Medications containing antihistamines as well as asthma medication can also cause reduced vaginal lubrication. Insufficient arousal: To stimulate “wetness” in a woman, she needs to be aroused through foreplay, be in a conducive environment and the right frame of mind. When these are lacking during intercourse, a woman may experience dryness. Poor performance: Early ejaculation is also some of the things that may put a partner off resulting in vaginal dryness. *Anxiety: Psychological and emotional factors like stress and anxiety can also interfere with sexual desire and lead to vaginal dryness when normal vaginal lubrication does not occur. When a woman is anxious, there is insufficient blood flow resulting in dryness. You claim to have the solution to vaginal dryness during intercourse. How? The solution is Moist personal lubricant. It is manufactured by Sheffield Pharmaceuticals, an American based pharmaceutical company in New London, Connecticut United States. As with all personal lubricants, it is used to reduce friction or aid penetration during intercourse. It is water based non-staining, greaseless and non-irritating lube. It is alcohol and fragrance free, and friendly to condoms. It also can be used in certain medical procedures such as: insertion of rectal thermometer and speculum, introduction of catheter among others. Ingredients contained in Moist personal lubricant include: cellulose gum, citric acid, methylparaben, natural glycerine, propylparaben (purified) water. Moist is a product duly certified by National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC). The product was registered to be introduced into the Nigerian market since August, 2016. However, prior to its registration, it was sold sparingly in the market since 2013. Why do you recommend this personal lubricant and for which group of people? Moist personal lubricant is for married couples who sometimes find penetration a little difficult as a result of non-secretion of vaginal fluid during intercourse and also for certain medical procedures such as thermometer insertion. You claim the product can help in creating bond among spouses. How? Staying intimate and romantically connected is one of the surest ways for a happy lasting marriage. Having a healthy sex life with your spouse improves the depth of love and connection, bonding between partners. Moist Personal Lubricant eliminates dryness thereby enhancing a deep feeling of satisfaction for both partners, which results in deep affection for each other. The bible acknowledges the importance of healthy sex in marriage that is why it admonishes us not to deny one another. Instead of a woman to deny her husband because of pain associated with dryness causing rift in her marriage, she is advised to use Moist to eliminate the dryness and enhance her bond to her husband. Sexual Act itself is bonding in nature  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .