Deodorant is essential. With the weather getting hotter, sweating in your clothes as you go about your activities is inevitable. The downside, though, is that the active ingredients in most deodorants are aluminium-based, and they block the sweat pores and minimise sweating. The presence of metal and the other inactive ingredients has caused a lot of worries. They have been linked to higher incidences of cancer, Alzheimer’s disease and others. If you’re extra conscious about what you put on your skin, then you’re on the right path. But what do you use when an antiperspirant is not an option, or when you’ve run out and can’t lay your hands on some deodorant at the time? You should never have to choose between stinky sweat or potential cancer. There are some natural alternatives that can minimise perspiration and sweaty smells. Bear in mind that the results may not be as dramatic as you’re used to, especially when you first start using them. The body will need to get rid of toxins before it balances out, but the peace of mind is worth it. Photo: Health Nation The citric acid in lemon juice kills the germs that cause perspiration smells. Wipe your underarms with some in the morning, and you’re good to go. You may sweat, but you’ll be smell free. Baking Soda. Photo: Google A little baking soda or cornstarch with water makes a paste that prevents excessive sweating and smells. Or you can combine the power of two for a super deodorising experience. Witch Hazel. Photo: Rushcam This is an excellent astringent that should be on every dressing table. It is great for cleaning wounds, removing makeup and preventing excess oiliness of the skin. It also can be used as an antiperspirant. Lavender plant. Photo: Garden Design Lavender water or essential oil is great for preventing smells from sweating. Add it to any of the other alternatives you plan to use or spray the lavender water like you would deodorant. You’ll smell lily fresh through the day. Hand sanitizers The antibacterial agents in hand sanitiser can help as a deodorant in a pinch, killing bacteria. With a bit of experimentation, you are sure to find the product that works for you.