Once we arrived in Paris, one of the world’s most romantic cities in the world, the experience was heightened by the luxurious treatment by Remy Martin. First stop was the Hotel de Nell located in the heart of Paris. Once we checked in, I managed to squeeze in a quick photo shoot for Orange Culture and moved to the first spot of the evening – The Ritz! Foie gras, a selection of cheese, ham and other small bites, were the order of the day before we went out to dinner. At Café Chic, opposite Sotheby’s, we were welcomed with great smiles and delicious cocktails. I had the tenderest steak I’ve had in Paris. I would definitely recommend it to anyone planning a trip to Paris. Request to sit outside too, so you can take in the city. Cafe Chic- fois gras We rounded the night up at the coolest rooftop bar with a table already reserved for us. The bar has some of the most gorgeous views of Paris at night. We laughed, drank and looked forward to the next day as we journeyed to Cognac. Dinner in Cognac. I did not know what to expect on a trip to Cognac, but I woke up super excited and the trip was a lot more than I imagined. We arrived in the city of Cognac to a stunning view of elongated vineyards as we were led to the beautiful Maison Rémy Martin. We saw the different cellars where the fine champagne cognacs are made including the prestigious Louis XIII. We also took a tour and experienced the history of the families who sacrificed to build the Rémy Martin brand. Lunch at The Remy Martin Club, Cognac Next, we had a tasting and discovery experience which utilised our sense of sight, smell and taste. Vanilla, citrus, chocolate and more are some of the rich facets of the beautiful bottles we enjoyed. House of Remy Martin  After our tasting, we headed to the dining room with the most mesmerising wallpaper, which also happens to be used in the White House. The food was delicious and dessert was embellished with actual gold. Desert-Remy Martin Club After a night of great food, conversation, discovering and learning, we moved to view the home of the Remy Martin family and tasted the LOUIS XIII straight from the barrel. The night ended at L’yeuse – Chateaubernard with its gorgeous view of vineyards. Louvre Museum We left for Paris the next morning and checked in to The Pullman around the airport. As we whiled away time, we visited the Louvre, which unfortunately was closed because the museum is closed on Tuesdays. We still managed to get an amazing view from the restaurant we had dinner at, Palais-Royal. Make sure you order the lamb chops when you visit. While walking around the Louvre, we found the amazing LouLous restaurant which has the most gorgeous view of the Louvre pyramid. I highly recommend this restaurant, but make sure you make a reservation first.