Keyamo Media director of Buhari Campaign Organisation Festus Keyamo said no Nigerian government has touched the lives of the poor like President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration has done in three years. Keyamo, a human rights lawyer made this known at the inauguration of Buhari/Osinbajo Project 2019 in Ilorin, Kwara state capital.  He said the previous administrations established the worst system of government. “I can tell that there is no government in the history of this country since 1960 that has addressed the plights the poor, the vulnerable in the last three years than this government,” Keyamo said. “If you compare what accrued to the country in 16 years and what was done with the money earned in three years and infrastructure built by Buhari, you will see the difference,” According to him, before Buhari came on board, over 24 state governments were unable to pay the salaries of their workers. He said the administration, with prudent management of resources, approved bailout funds to the states to clear the arrears and address their critical challenges. “We should not go back to that era of nonpayment of salary and suffering of the masses,” Keyamo added. He said Buhari with his sharing formula has done was to take the bullet from the rich to protect the poor unlike previous governments. “They operated a system that ignored physical infrastructure in the country, that ignored the plight of the poor, the weak and the vulnerable in Nigeria,” “In 16 years, all they did in the South East was Onisha-Owerri road, whereas, in three years, President Buhari is doing four major road construction in the region. You have a president who has fought for you, why can’t you fight for him,” Keyamo said. He, therefore, urged Nigerians to support the president in next year’s elections, saying ”this is the time he needs you more to fight for him…. We must remind ourselves today why we must stand firmly behind him in 2019,” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .