Nigeria’s forward Victor Moses celebrates scoring a penalty to equalise during the Russia 2018 World Cup Group D football match between Nigeria and Argentina at the Saint Petersburg Stadium in Saint Petersburg on June 26, 2018. / AFP PHOTO / Giuseppe CACACE Super Eagles winger, Victor Moses on Wednesday announced his retirement from international football. The 27-year-old who had 37 appearances for Nigeria, decided to play for Nigeria after initially featuring for the English Youth team said he would like to focus on his club career now and his young family. “I would like to announce that after much thought I have made the decision to retire from playing international football,” Moses wrote on Instagram “I have experienced some of the best moments of my life wearing the Super Eagles shirt and have memories with me that will last a lifetime. Nothing will ever compete to what it felt like to represent Nigeria on behalf of our country. “However, I feel that now is the right time to step away in order to be able to focus fully on club career and my young family as well as to allow the next generation of Super Eagles stars the opportunity to step up and to flourish. We are blessed as a nation to have so many exciting young players coming through and now is their time.” Moses made his debut for the national team in 2012 after he was cleared by FIFA to play for Nigeria on 1 November 2011. He won one Africa Cup of Nations in 2013 and played in two World Cup. Moses was called up to Nigeria’s 23-man squad for the 2013 Africa Cup of Nations, scoring two penalties in the final group stage game against Ethiopia, which Nigeria needed to win to go through. In May 2018 he was named in Nigeria’s preliminary 30 man squad for the 2018 World Cup in Russia, where he got a crucial equalizer against Argentina, though, Super Eagles lost the game in the dying minutes to see Argentina through while Nigeria got eliminated To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .