   Briefing journalists on Monday at the command’s headquarters in Owerri, Imo state capital, the Commissioner of Police, Dasuki Galandachi, said the arrests of 11 children ranging from the ages of one to nine, were made between July 24 and August 17.He gave names of the suspects, all females, as Ikewete Lucyann; Theresa Asiegbu from Urualla, Ideato North, Imo State; Chioma Emeka (Umunwumoke Okigwe, Imo State); Happiness Peter from Ogoja Cross River State; Martina Nwadike, Agbor Park, Benin, Edo State; Martha Ojimba, from Mgbee Orlu, Imo State; Chizoba Eze, and Ama Eze from Ngwo Enugu State. He said: “Investigation revealed that two of the recovered children, Habeeb and Wunmi, were stolen from Sabo area of Lagos State. The suspects have confessed to have sold some of the children for between N300,000 and N600,000 before they were arrested. “Parents and guardians whose child/children are missing are advised to report to the Public Relations Department of the State Police Command for identification and collection of their children.” The police boss praised the success of community policing for the feat, resolving to make Imo a hot zone for criminals.Meanwhile, uncertainties are still surrounding the whereabouts of Mrs. Ngozi Nweze and her two children: Elochukwu and Wisdom, who were taken away from their abode on June 15, 2015 by their neighbour who sold them in Imo. The incident came to light when officials of the Ebonyi State Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development recently recovered her first son, Daniel, was also part of the persons trafficked to the state and sold like a common commodity. The family hails from Umuezeoka community in Ezza North Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. The four were lured to Imo on the fateful day by their neighbour, whose name was simply given as Amaechi. Before that fateful day, it was gathered that life was hellish for the poor family of the Nwezes. The breadwinner of the family had kicked the bucket, leaving his young wife and three children, whose ages range from seven to 13, behind. To feed, the widow worked herself to the bones in order to raise money. And in all she did, helps appeared not to be coming from anywhere. There were series of bills to pay, ranging from school fees to clothing the children. It was perhaps based on the obvious predicament of the family that their neighbour, Amaechi, allegedly lured them to Imo with a promise to offer the widow a plum job that will enable her take care of her children. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .