 The completed Crimson Court in Ibadan, Oyo State  The company is planning a site tour for real estate professionals and other stakeholders early next month to familiarize them with Crimson Court. Arranged in a terrace house style, each unit at Crimson Court comes with four-bedrooms all en-suite, modern kitchen fitted with Bosch appliances, two living rooms and outdoor terraces that gazes into the Ibadan horizon. Each unit also comes with a flex maid’s room. The gated community provides buyers and investors with an entry gate, 24/7 uniformed security guards, adequate parking space, good drainage, constant water supply and back-up power generator. Other facilities in the estate include, landscaped green areas, swimming pool, gym facility and facility management services. Optional solar/inverter back-up power and home automation systems are also available for owners who desire to upgrade their unit. Crimson Court is in the tree-lined and historic Jericho GRA, a community that many top executives in Ibadan call home. It is accessible to major businesses, academic and entertainment centres within the city, making the estate a top choice for homebuyers and investor, according to the Managing Director, Structuracasa Nigeria Limited, Mr. Jide Alade said, “Diamante Casa has dedicated the highest standard of professionalism in workmanship into constructing Crimson Court. It is now completed and the homes are selling fast with different convenient payment options including mortgage payment plans. “As the road and rail networks linking Lagos and Ibadan (and surrounding communities) nears its completion, we will see more real estate developments and investments spring up in Ibadan. More professionals and retirees that love Ibadan cool and peaceful environs will move to Nigeria’s premier city,”.“Property values will drastically increase as demands grow. This is the perfect time to invest in Ibadan real estate. Diamante Casa seems to be taking the lead in this initiative,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .