 Ekweremadu  He was being grilled over his numerous assets in Nigeria, United Kingdom (UK), United States (U.S.) and United Arab Emirates (UAE). Ekweremadu, who was asked to account for how he came about over 60 assets, was permitted by the EFCC to seek medical attention in the hospital when it appeared that he was getting weak. Meanwhile, a source said the resumption of the investigation on Ekweremadu’s assets would now be determined by his fitness and the medical report from the hospital. Also, another source said: “We were able to highlight additional 38 assets, added to the initial 22 on which he ought to give explanation. “The grilling started smoothly until he complained of discomfort and he was unable to continue to answer our questions. His sudden illness might have arisen from high blood pressure. “Since he needed urgent medical attention, we allowed him to go to the hospital of his choice for treatment.” The Federal Government, through the Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property, had traced 22 assets to Ekweremadu. The assets were suspected to have been acquired through illicit funds. The property are at No. 11, Evans Enwerem Street, Apo Legislative Quarters, Apo, Abuja; Plot 2633 Kyami, Abuja; Housing Estate (Plot 1106 CRD, Cadastral Zone 07-07, Lugbe, Abuja; Plot 2782 Asokoro Extension, Abuja and Houses at Citi Park Estate, Gwagwalada, Abuja. Others are at Plot 1474 Cadastral Zone BD6, Mabushi, Abuja; Congress Court, Abuja; Flat 1, Block D25, Athletics Street (24th Street) Games Village, Abuja; and Plot 66, 64 Crescent, Gwarimpa Estate, Abuja. Traceable assets of Ekweremadu in the U.S. include 4507 Stella Street, Bellavida Estate, Kissime, Florida, USA; 2747 Club Cortile Circle, Kissime, Florida, USA; and 2763 Club Cortile Circle, Kissime, Florida, USA. The property in London include Flat 4 Varsity Court, Harmer Street, WIH 4NW, London; and 52 Ayleston.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .