 PHOTO: GOOGLE.COM/SEARCH  The platform, which is the first comprehensive consumer opinion site, is leveraging on technology to improve consumer satisfaction on goods they consume. This is in line with the international consumer rights law and the Consumer Protection Council of Nigerian (CPC), which posited that consumers have a right to be informed, educated and satisfied with basic needs and they have responsibility to be aware, inform producers of their expectations, and inform businesses and other consumers about their experiences. Speaking during the launch of the platform, Founder, Feedbackhall.com, Dr. Chiugo Kanu, said the platform allows consumers sign up, review and rate products, ask questions, share opinions and real life experiences with products and services offered in Nigerian markets. Dr. Kanu, who is also a Lecturer, Business Education University of Nigeria, Nsukka noted that many Nigerian consumers are not aware of their rights and some companies have taken advantage of their ignorance to make despicable profits, while some consumers have had pleasant experiences with goods and services but have no means to tell their stories beyond close family and friends. She said: “Feedbackhall provides a platform where the satisfied and unsatisfied share their experiences with consumers and producers anywhere. It was based on a strong belief that sharing product and service experiences provides great insights for consumers and helps them make informed decisions. “The platform also initiates and strengthens conversations between consumers and producers, thereby closing the gap between what producers and service providers offer and what consumers like. Hence, it increases consumer satisfaction and helps businesses more successful.”Adding that the team is committed to helping every consumer share genuine experiences and help them use the information effectively, Dr. Kanu said it will be a sustained online review community opened to researchers and organisations. She added that over 60 categories of products and services have been upgraded and can be reviewed on Feedbackhall including mobile network, banking, transport (airlines and road transporters), pension, restaurants, cable TV, retail (online and physical shops), malls, cinemas, hotels, smart phones, drinks, groceries, personal care, beauty products, baby/child products and many more.On security measures taken on the platform, she said hate speeches and pornographic images will not be allowed on the platform and advised consumers to be genuine with their reviews. “We advise organisations to desist from generating comments or reviews in their favour or posting reviews that are inimical to competitor’s growth. Giving the keynote address on “Information as a tool of accountability”, Professor of political economy, Pat Utomi, said data on consumers’ feedback and behaviour in Nigeria had been poor but the platform will change the narratives. “Information is an important tool of accountability because it helps making informed decision. Manufacturers can use the feedback of their product to produce what the consumer wants, thereby, modifying consumers’ behaviour.“Technology has changed things and leveraging it to improve consumer’s behaviour is the way to go. Although, the media and civil society hasn’t done enough, this initiative truly is a critical contribution to our national structure by protecting consumers. It provides feedback intelligence as a one-stop shop for processing information that will enable choice,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .