 Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta  As contained, in a statement signed by Head, Directorate of Public Relations (DPR) of the institution, Dr. (Mrs.) Linda Onwuka, the objective of the training was to support farmers in the production of high yielding varieties of cassava, using the best agronomic practices, including weed management strategies, with the aim of reducing yield gap and increasing farmers income. In her welcome address, the Director of AMREC, Professor (Mrs.) Dorcas Adegbite explained that the University through AMREC brought the training to Iwoye-Ketu, in order to boost cassava production in the area. Emphasising the importance of cassava as a major staple crop in Nigeria, Adegbite disclosed that its role in increasing farmers income and improving their livelihood couldn’t be overemphasised.
  
Delivering his opening remarks, the Vice-Chancellor, represented by the Director, Directorate of University Farms (DUFARMS), Mr. Joseph Olobasola implored the farmers to utilise the knowledge acquired from the training to boost their agricultural production.
     
According to him, researchers have developed new technologies on cassava and improved agricultural practices that will increase the tonnage of cassava from the usual 12-15 tonnes per hectare to 30-50 tonnes per hectare.
    
The Technical Session of the training exposed participants to cassava utilisation, as an industrial raw material, basic steps in cassava production, derivatives from cassava, cultural operations in cassava production and potentials in cassava production.
   
Other resource persons emphasised the need to have effective weed management techniques through the use of pre and post-emergence herbicides, while participants were taken through steps in calibrating knapsack sprayer and safety tips in the use of agrochemicals, as well as demonstration of spraying of herbicides.
   
Responding on behalf of the participants, the Alaye of Iwoye-Ketu, Oba Joel Ademola Aremu appreciated FUNAAB for bringing the programme to the town and lauded AMREC for the support received from the centre.He further appreciated AMREC for the past trainings such as ‘Training on Cotton Production, Bee Keeping Practice and Medicinal uses of Honey.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .