• Software ‘designed to curb theft, kidnapping’
In a bid to ensure the wellbeing of the citizenry, the Dukan Group has launched the CarXie Mobile app aimed at curtailing the spate of kidnapping and other criminal activities being perpetrated in the country. The outfit’s operations Director, Chinedu Amadi, who spoke during the launch of the software in Abuja, disclosed that no fewer than 36,000 Nigerians would be gainfully employed through the initiative. Amadi dosclosed that CarXie will come live in Abuja on August 20, urging the citizenry to download the CarXie Mobile App as soon as in the interest of the country.
Stating that well qualified drivers, car owners and commuters would reap immensely from the initiatives, he assured that CarXie would reduces the amount of monies Nigeria loses daily through capital flight to foreign cab companies. Noting that there are many designs for technology products coming out from Nigeria that engender hope in the early emergence of Nigeria as the giant of Africa, Amadi said that the on-going national rolling-launch of the CarXie Mobile App and Swift2pay, is another opportunity for Nigerians to actively participate in national development. According to him, “It is high time Nigerians realized that the only way to the industrialized economy of our dreams is the preference and patronage of Made in Nigeria products and Services. The preference for everything foreign must end in the face of products and services that meet global standards. We therefore ask Nigerians to support and partner made in Nigeria by Nigerians for Nigerians. “The CarXie Mobile App, tested and available in the Google Play store and in the very discerning Apples Store, comes on board with awesome features that resolve a number of the challenges that have threatened the growth of the transport sector in Nigeria. These features include how to make car theft and kidnapping impracticable – a rider is expected to issue his Bank Verification Number (BVN), as a means of social identification, each vehicle is automatically tracked, and voice chats are possible during rides. “The CarXie App is embedded with the Swift2Pay easy to use payment gateway and card to ensure only your wallet like feature is exposed to online transactions. Swift2Pay has additional features including ATM. This is an innovation to ensure that Nigerians can move around with a smart wallet. Engaging cab owners and drivers, the CarXie Director explained, that only cars made from 2008 would be allowed to operate the CarXie franchise. He stressed that cars below 2008 may under-perform thus diminishing the image of the brand CarXie. Amadi noted that the integrity of the drivers and vehicles are assured through rigorous inspection exercises. Unlike competition, inspection is free and handled by supervisory partnerships embedded in the CarXie offer to ensure quality and trust – the Executive Partners, the State Partners and the Regional Partners. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .