 Mobalaji Seriki, Managing Director, Allure Media (left); Omotayo Omodia, Country Manager, Canon Nigeria; Gemma Reyes, Business Development Mnager, Canon CCNA; Oluwayemisi Seriki, CEO, Nsure Beauty Studio; Johnpaul Nwogueze, Managing Director, Goodmark Visual Gallery and Taiwo Adediran, Channel Account Manager – B2C PV, Canon Nigeria, at the unveiling of the Canon M100 in Lagos  The Nigerian beauty and makeup scene is filled with budding and enterprising individuals who yearn to find the suitable device to capture special moments while transforming their clients. Bearing in mind that makeup and photography go hand in hand, Canon partnered with over 100 makeup artists to host a one-day makeup and photography workshop – focusing on the Make-up artistry scene in Lagos. Held at the Sheraton Lagos Hotel, the launch, which was attended by stakeholders from beauty, fashion and lifestyle, saw guests engaged in unique sessions and techniques to help improve their photography and videography skills. With the workshop, Canon developed modules that helped artists who were eager to share photos of their diverse works, learn about photography and how to deliver flawless pictures and videos using Canon cameras. The EOS M100 is poised to help users capture life’s special moments in vibrant, beautiful colours and detail with its compact and easy-to-use interchangeable lens. Speaking on the new products, Marketing Director B2C, Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA), Somesh Adukia said, “We are committed to the development of the photography and imaging scene in Nigeria. And to further give our consumers unique experience in this growing market, we are launching another distinctive product. The launch of the EOS M100 helps us further amplify our message of #LiveForTheStory as consumers now have access to a device that is easy to use for beginners, mid-level and professional photographers who are aiming to tell stories using everyday imagery.” The EOS M100 camera is adaptable for users of any level — from beginners to professionals who simply wants to take their images or video to the next level in the world of photography or someone. The event was an opportunity for makeup artists to have a first-hand view of the M100, giving them hands on experience with the device; the workshop displayed the device’s ease of use for various types of scenarios. Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA) is a division within Canon Middle East FZ LLC (CME), a subsidiary of Canon Europe. The formation of CCNA in 2016 is a strategic step that aims to enhance Canon’s business within the Africa region – by strengthening Canon’s in-country presence and focus. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .