Olusegun Mimiko Boroffice, APC disagree over direct primaries in Ondo 
Former Governor of Ondo State, Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, has declared that God’s miracle is the reason Nigeria still exists, despite the perversion and intimidation in the country. Mimiko spoke at a book launch, ‘Save For His Praise: A personal testimony, authored by Publisher of Hallmark Newspaper, Emeka Obasi, in Lagos. Mimiko who wrote the forward to the 300-page book with 18 chapters said: “There is a proliferation of prophets against the backdrop of typical Nigerians, in what I call an instant gratification. “Nigeria itself is a miracle for existing in spite of entrench perversion in the land. In about 100 days in 1994, more than a million persons lost their lives in Rwanda genocide. I placed that side by side with the level of perversion, self-affliction in Nigeria, and it became clear that Nigeria itself is a miracle.” By the World Health Organisation (WHO) figure of 2015, Japan has 85-year highest life expectancy in the world. It means that in that country, “Whether you pray or not, you will spend 85 years on earth. But in Nigeria, whether you are a miracle worker, or a miracle recipient, the average life expectancy is around 55. The former governor lamented that rather than fixing the country, “Nigerians rely on miracles. We only seek and pray and pray and pray without work. “As long as we remain a society where everyone is a commodity on the day of election who can be bought with N5000, our miracle will not come. Obasi praised his wife; Dr. Elizabeth Mankini Emeka-Obasi for her support, adding that he “wrote this book to thank God for the salvation of my soul. The Bible says you should call on him in the days of trouble. The Church of God is real and true, no matter what fake prophets do. Pastor Enoch Adeboye once said that for the fact that there are fake pastors, there are genuine ones too. In another development, the senator representing Ondo North Senatorial District, Prof. Ajayi Boroffice, and the All Progressives Congress (APC) have disagreed over direct primaries to elect candidates. In a statement yesterday in Akure by his Chief Press Secretary, Kayode Fakuyi, he said President Muhammadu Buhari, Bola Tinubu and other prominent leaders of the party had declared their support for direct primaries. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .