It is incredibly hard to stay fit while travelling. You do not want anything to come between you and the pleasure that comes with travelling. Unfortunately, with each journey, you are exposed to different climatic conditions, food habits and ways of living. To ensure that you are fit and healthy, here are some exercises to do while on a trip and the parts of your body they work on: Plank with leg kick. Photo: Style Craze Works your abs, lower back, chest, shoulders and triceps.
Start in a forearm plank position with elbows under shoulders and feet hip-width apart. Engage quads, glutes, and core the entire time to form a straight line from head to feet. Lift left leg up to hip height, and then kick out a few inches to the left. Come back to centre and lower foot back to the ground. Repeat, this time lifting right leg and kicking to the right to complete one rep. Side Lunge. Photo: USA Today Works your thighs and hips.
Start standing with your legs apart and toes pointing forward. Shift your body weight to one leg, bending the knee until it reaches a 90-degree angle, and the other leg is straight. Return to centre and switch sides. Squats. Photo: Pinterest Works your legs and butt.
Stand with your feet slightly wider than your hips. Your toes should be pointing about five to 20 degrees outward. Look straight ahead and pick a spot on the wall in front of you and focus on it the entire time you squat. Jump Lunge: Alyscia Cunnigham Works your legs and butt.
Lunge forward with your left leg, elbows bent and hands in fists, with the right hand in front of the chest and left hand at the hip. Jump as you switch legs and arms, landing in a lunge with right foot in front. Switch legs with every jump. Sit Ups. Photo: Pinterest Works your abs and reduces stomach fat.
Lie on your back, bend your legs and place your feet firmly on the ground to stabilise your lower body. Cross your hands to opposite shoulders or place them behind your ears, without pulling on your neck. Then curl your upper body all the way up toward your knees, exhaling as you lift. Slowly return to starting point. Inhale as you do so.