(FILES) In this file photo taken on March 27, 2018 Nigeria’s German manager Gernot Rohr shouts instructions to his players from the touchline during the International friendly football match between Nigeria and Serbia at the Hive stadium in Barnet, north London. / AFP PHOTO / Daniel LEAL-OLIVAS Nigeria head coach Gernot Rohr has listed twenty-four players to participate in next month’s crucial African Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifier against Seychelles. The match scheduled for September 7 in Victoria, Seychelles will be the Super Eagles first match since the World Cup loss to Argentina. Rohr will hope the Super Eagles wins the match to earn three points after suffering a 2-0 loss to South Africa in Uyo, Akwa-Ibom in June 2017. Super Eagles will be without their captain John Mikel Obi who just returned to fitness, as well as Victor Moses who announced his retirement from international football. Right back duo of Tyronne Ebuehi and Abdullahi Shehu also miss out due to injury. Rohr’s call-up was not with many surprises although he invited little known Nigerians Semi Ajayi and Jamilu Collins in the 24-man team alongside FC Porto B’s Kelechi Nwakali who played in a holiday match last May. Bordeaux new signing Samuel Kalu has been rewarded with his first call-up, as expected while Henry Onyekuru and Ola Aina have been recalled.
Goalkeepers: Francis Uzoho (RC Deportivo), Daniel Akpeyi Chippa United), Ikechukwu Ezenwa (Enyimba). Defenders: Ola Aina (Torino) Bryan Idowu (Locomotiv Moscow) Chidozie Awaziem (FC Porto) Leon Balogun (Bright and Hove Albion) William Ekong (Udinese), Collins Jamilu (Padeborn) Semi Ajayi (Rotherham). Midfielders: Wilfred Ndidi (Leicester City) Oghenekaro Etebo (Stoke City) Joel Obi (Chievo Verona) John Ogu (Hapoel Beer’Sheva) Ogenyi Onazi (Trabzonspor) Alex Iwobi (Arsenal) Kelechi Nwakali (FC Porto B). Attackers: Kelechi Iheanacho (Leicester City) Ahmed Musa (Al Nassr) Simy Nwankwo (Crotone) Odion Ighalo (Changchun Yatai) Samuel Kalu (Girondins Bordeaux) Henry Onyekuru (Galatasaray). Players on standby list are Stephen Eze, Musa Muhammed, Uche Agbo, Blessing Eleke. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .