Uche Agbo Former International, Garba Lawal, has said that it would do the country a lot of good to have Standard Liege’s midfielder, Uche Agbo in the Super Eagles line-up at this time. Lawal spoke against the backdrop of the 24-man list released by manager, Gernot Rohr to prosecute the September 7 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifier against Seychelles. Eagles lost 0-2 to South Africa in her first game played at the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, and for the country to leapfrog the South Africans on the victory in the next game is a most. And for this to come to pass, Lawal maintains that everyone that has proven his mettle must be availed fair opportunity. Speaking to The Guardian yesterday, Lawal said having proven his worth in his club in Belgium, Agbo should be given adequate opportunity like others in the Super Eagles so that he can prove himself. “This is a player that plays for his club, Standard Liege in the Belgian League week in, week out, yet he has never been given the opportunity to play for the Eagles each time he is invited. “If Rohr is saying that he wants players who play regularly, then Agbo is one of them. I still do not understand why the young man hasn’t been given that chance, despite his form. As a coach, I think players are picked based on performance. Aside that, I do not know what Rohr is looking out for again,” he said. Lawal, who is member of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) Technical Committee, lamented that his opinions do not count. “Like every other person, we only get to hear or read about players called up for national assignment on the Internet, and this is without our input. I do not know Agbo from anywhere, but I got interested in the young man because of his exploits in a foreign club. This is part of my duty as a member of the committee- monitoring players anywhere in the world. “I know it is just a matter of time before Agbo will get that chance. At the World Cup qualifiers, he was invited but never tried. During friendly matches organised in preparation for the World Cup, he was also not given a chance for reasons best known to the Eagles’ handlers. “And now that Rohr has decided to invite only players who feature regularly for their clubs, again I wonder why invitation was not extended to him. I certainly believe his time will come. It is just a matter of time before Nigerians get to see what this young man has to offer,” he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .