Daniel Ndubuisi Fred, popularly known as Fred Dan in the music industry, has listed poor promotion as part of the challenges facing gospel music artistes in Nigeria.
While sharing his views on the industry, the singer said Nigerian gospel artistes are working very hard, but the mindset people, who are always expecting free music, is causing them more harm than good. “People expect us not to make money from doing music just because it is gospel. ‘Thank you for coming, you blessed me so much. You are going places, keep it up,’ does not put food on our table. Because of this, gospel artistes face challenges ranging from lack of financial support system, which most times lead to poor promotion of their works and lack of recognition by musical and non-musical bodies, compared to what our secular counterparts enjoy,” he said. The singer encouraged his colleagues to work together in the interest of the genre, adding, “we need to work together and change the narrative; it’s our duty. I believe the best any Nigerian gospel musician should do is to keep serving God, believe Him and keep doing quality stuffs. One day, your hardwork, consistency and persistence will pay off,” he said. Meanwhile, Fred dan is set for the release of his latest 9-track album, Simply Amazing later this month, a follow up to his 2016 Elu Elu and God of Everything in 2017. The Christian Legendary and Impact Makers Award (CLIMA) have also nominated the singer as Artiste of the Year (South East Zone), with voting expected to end tomorrow. Currently state Secretary of the Fellowship of Gospel Music Ministers Of Nigeria (FOGMMON) Anambra Chapter, Fred Dan discovered his passion for music at age of 10; being born into a musical family really encouraged him to master his craft, as he was allowed to attend and participate in musical events in Jos where he grew up. “I started singing as a solo artiste in church in August, 1998 in the city of Jos; we formed an acapella group in 1999 and won Jos International Breweries music competition in the year 2000. I co-founded other music groups such as The Trinity, DV3, and was the Director of Praise and Worship for The Lord our Righteousness (TLR) Worship Club. We released three group albums and in 2014, I had my personal album. But professionally, I can say I started singing in 2004.” According to the Psychology graduate, “I do gospel R&B, gospel soul, and Afro-pop. This fusion is aimed at producing something that the Nigerian music market will appreciate,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .