Chelsea’s Belgian striker Michy Batshuayi (C) is challenged by Arsenal’s Spanish defender Nacho Monreal (L) and Arsenal’s Swiss midfielder Granit Xhaka during the English FA Community Shield football match between Arsenal and Chelsea at Wembley Stadium in north London on August 6, 2017. Ian KINGTON / AFP After the English Premier League and France Ligue 1 served exciting entertainment on their respective opening weekend, the Spanish La liga and the Italian Serie A begin their new season this weekend. With a packed weekend on mouthwatering fixtures including a London derby, here are five games you just don’t want to miss. Chelsea vs Arsenal Arsenal’s new coach Unai Emery suffered a 2-0 defeat at the hands of champions, Manchester City at home, while Chelsea’s new coach, Maurizio Sarri claimed a 3-0 victory away from home at Huddersfield. Both managers will hope to go ahead of each other for the first time in the league. The rivalry between this London neighbors makes the match a cracker to watch. Juventus vs Chievo It could be feel utterly repetitive, the Serie A. Serial winners Juventus celebrated their seventh consecutive title triumph, still they brought in the reigning world footballer of the year, Cristiano Ronaldo. Football fans across the world can’t wait to witness the season opener for the Bianconeri against Chievo. The match will be the debut for Ronaldo, who joined the Juventus from Real Madrid for €112 million in the summer. Lazio vs Napoli On the opening round of games in the Serie A, the spotlight will definitely be on Cristiano Ronaldo and Juventus, as the superstar makes his league debut. However, the fixtures generator has served up a treat on the opening weekend as Lazio welcome Napoli at the Stadio Olimpico. With Maurizio Sarri gone from Napoli to Chelsea, it will be interesting to note how the hugely experienced Carlo Ancelotti takes to life at Naples. After missing out on the Champions League on the last matchday, Lazio have managed to hang on to their star player Sergej Milinkovic-Savic, which will no doubt excite Simeone Inzaghi, who continues to lead Lazio’s progress. Real Madrid vs Getafe After days of losing a final for the first time in six years against city rivals Atletico Madrid, three times consecutive Champions League winners Real Madrid will start life without their highest goal scorer for nine years Cristiano Ronaldo and the tactical know-how of former coach Zinedine Zidane against Getafe who finished eight last season.  Tottenham vs Fulham After they shelled out over €109m on 12 players, Fulham’s first game following their return to the Premier League didn’t go as well as expected. The loss to Crystal Palace highlighted major flaws of the side including the overwhelming need for more understanding between the new signings. Slanisa Jokanovic will have to hasten the gelling process as his team play Spurs at the Wembley. Although, Harry Kane’s August curse remains a big mystery, Fulham will have to keep the striker at bay as he battles to stop the non-scoring run from exceeding its 15th game.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .