UEFA have announced the three finalists for the 2017/18 UEFA Men’s Player of the Year award. Juventus new signing Cristiano Ronaldo, Real Madrid midfielder Luka Modrić and Liverpool’s Mohamed Salah are the three last men standing, as selected by coaches and journalists. The winner of the prestigious award will be named – along with the UEFA Women’s Player of the Year and UEFA Champions League positional award winners – during the group stage draw in Monaco on Thursday 30 August. The UEFA Europa League Player of the Season will be announced the following day. Liverpool’s Egyptian midfielder Mohamed Salah celebrates scoring their second goal during the English Premier League football match between West Bromwich Albion and Liverpool at The Hawthorns stadium in West Bromwich, central England, on April 21, 2018. / AFP PHOTO / Lindsey PARNABY / Mohamed Salah is now the first African player and first Premier League player to make the top three of the award since it was first handed out in 2010-11. He is a UEFA Champions League runner-up and a multiple record breaker in his first term at Liverpool – scored 44 goals for Liverpool last season Juventus’ Portuguese forward Cristiano Ronaldo reacts after missing a shot during the Italian Serie A football match AC Chievo vs Juventus at the Marcantonio-Bentegodi stadium in Verona on August 18, 2018. / AFP PHOTO / Alberto PIZZOLI Portugal captain, Ronaldo scored 27 La Liga goals and 15 Champions League goals in 13 Champions League appearances as Real Madrid won the trophy for the third consecutive time. Ronaldo is a UEFA Champions League winner for a record fifth time and UEFA Champions League top scorer for the sixth campaign running. Croatia’s midfielder Luka Modric (R) celebrates after scoring their second goal during the Russia 2018 World Cup Group D football match between Argentina and Croatia at the Nizhny Novgorod Stadium in Nizhny Novgorod on June 21, 2018. / AFP PHOTO / Johannes EISELE / Croatia star, Modric played in the 2018 World Cup having defeated by France. He although, won the FIFA Golden Ball of the tournament. Chelsea’s Eden Hazard and Manchester City midfielder Kevin De Bruyne were both included in the top 10, alongside Barcelona forward Lionel Messi and Real Madrid’s Sergio Ramos. France World Cup winners Antoine Griezmann, Kylian Mbappe and Raphael Varane complete the longlist. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .