 Nigeria’s forward Victor Moses celebrates scoring a penalty to equalise during the Russia 2018 World Cup Group D football match between Nigeria and Argentina at the Saint Petersburg Stadium in Saint Petersburg on June 26, 2018. / AFP PHOTO / Giuseppe CACACE  The Russia 2018 World Cup star recently announced his retirement from the national team, saying he wants to concentrate on his club career and also pay more attention to his young family. But Super Eagles Manager, Gernot Rohr believes the former Wolves striker still has a lot to offer Nigeria and has therefore elected to convince him to rescind his decision. Rohr said in Lagos at the weekend that Moses’ decision to leave the Super Eagles took him by surprise, adding that he has been trying to talk Moses into changing his stance. “Victor Moses told me that he wants to fight for his position in Chelsea because they have a new coach. “I understand his position but I hope it is not a definitive retirement. Although it will give us the opportunity to try new players, we will continue to talk to him to change his position,” Rohr said. Rohr also revealed that he is planning a total assault on Seychelles, which Nigeria will meet in an African Nations Cup qualifier next week, saying the technical crew has already mapped out its plans for the game. Following the 0-2 home loss to South Africa in the first game of the qualifying series, Rohr admitted that the Eagles must beat Seychelles on September 7 to survive in the race to Cameroun 2019. “We lost our first game against South Africa in June last year and the next game against Seychelles is very important to us. After that, we will play two back-to-back games against Libya. “Seychelles, I believe, have a very good team, so we have to prepare well to beat them. Then after that, we want to play Saudi Arabia on September 11, which will be a good chance to try some new players. “The game against Seychelles is a crucial one and we won’t have longer time to prepare for it, so there is no real chance to try out new players, but we hope to do that in friendlies. It’s a game we can’t afford to lose.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .