 Etim Esin  Esin noted that the Eagles manager not being able to remain in the country to watch the league and discover players since taking over the men’s senior national team has contributed to the poor level of football development in the country. The former Lierse of Belgium player said the much preference for Nigerian players born in Europe by Rohr reflected that the Franco-German coach was not ready to look inwards to discover and nurture domestic players the same way former Super Eagles’ handler, Clemence Westerhof spent his entire time discovering players from all levels in the country. Esin surmised that Nigeria’s football would continue a downward slop in development if urgent steps were not taken to create an enabling environment for the domestic players to compete favourably with their counterparts in Europe. He also urged NFF and football stakeholders to provide modern standard facilities that would bring out the best in the players, stressing that Nigerian players needed enough apparatus to lift the standard of their game. “If the NFF wants Rohr to develop Nigerian football for the future, I don’t have any issues with it, but the federation must make him work and live in Nigeria “He needs to be in the country to source for domestic talents after failing at the World Cup. Westerhof discovered players like Finidi George, Daniel Amokachi, Sunday Oliseh and others during his days in the national team. We still have abundant talents across the country like this ex stars waiting to be discovered and groomed by an experienced tactician.
 
“The politics in Nigerian football is killing the development of the game. I see no reason why Rohr would still be pampered after having the worst result ever for Nigeria in the World Cup. Late Stephen Keshi was still building a team before going to the World Cup and qualified for the second round of the championship, equalling records set by other past Super Eagles coaches. “Rohr focused on Nigerian players born in Europe en route to the 2018 World Cup and failed to move beyond the group stage. He said he is growing a new and young team that was the reason for the Eagles poor outing in Russia, but late Keshi was also building a team when he took the Eagles to the round of 16 at the World Cup. “It is high time we faced reality in this country, things have to be done right. If the NFF is not ready to work with domestic coaches again, they should employ a reliable coach, who is ready to go round the country watch the league, grassroots games and discover players. If Rohr is working for the future, he must follow these rules. We have gifted players in Nigeria. The reliance on Nigerians born overseas did not work for him,” Esin added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .