A cross section of the graduating pupils Tributes poured in torrents for El Amin International School, Minna as it celebrated its 20th anniversary recently. Dignitaries including astute businessman, Alhaji Aliko Dangote; Emir of Minna, His Royal Highness, Dr. Umar Farouk Bahago; Deputy inspector General of Police, Mr. Shuaib Gambo and Niger State Commissioner for Education, Hajia Fatima Madugu, lauded the management for providing solid academic, moral and religious foundation for the children. Dangote, who was the keynote speaker, thanked the family of the former Head of State, General Ibrahim Babangida (rtd) for intervening in the educational needs of the country. He noted that foundations are very important to whatever anyone becomes in future. Represented by Alhaji Mansir Ahmed, the businessman reminded that government alone cannot provide the country’s educational needs, hence the need for private interventions such as El Amin School which, since its establishment has made indelible marks in the life of many Nigerians across various ethnic and religious divides. The acting principal, Mallam Ahmed disclosed that the school was founded by the wife of the former Head of State as an investment in the future of Nigeria. Ahmed stated that the school, which promotes cultural values reflected in positive character, mental alertness, and moral uprightness, is renowned for providing the needed foundation for children, citing the nation’s youngest PhD holder, Dr. Salihu Ibrahim Dasuki as an example. “The school educates children from across Nigeria and promotes respect for cultural and religious values, offering both National and International examinations including the West African Senior Secondary School Certificate Examination (WASSCE), National Examination Council (NECO), Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) and IGCSE. “While we maintain our mandate of ensuring and implementing a balanced and integrated curriculum that is delivered in the most impactful ways, El-Amin International School also offers an exclusive extracurricular activities ranging from photography, hairdressing, music and dancing. Our biggest sporting activities include polo, soccer, tennis, taekwondo, swimming and basketball.” At the ceremony, the nursery section graduated 35 pupils of 20 girls, 15 boys from Year six, while the secondary school, which marked its 19th graduation had a total of 38 boys and 20 girls. Individual prizewinners were Naja’atu Ishaka Bawa who received the outstanding awards for Geography, Chemistry, Economics, Biology and Civic Education while Maimunah Haruna received the awards for the best in Physics, English Language and ICT. Muhammed Ahmed Tijani got the award for the best in Mathematics while Farida Ibrahim got the best in Literature. Nabila Ishaka Bawa got the best in Islamic Studies while Precious Duza got the award for the best in Christian Religious Studies. Chairman, Parents Teachers Association (PTA), Ibrahim Ebbo, lauded the school for its positive impacts on the children.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .