US President Donald Trump listens during a phone conversation with Mexico’s President Enrique Pena Nieto on trade in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington, DC on August 27, 2018. President Donald Trump said Monday the US had reached a “really good deal” with Mexico and talks with Canada would begin shortly on a new regional free trade pact.”It’s a big day for trade. It’s a really good deal for both countries,” Trump said.”Canada, we will start negotiations shortly. I’ll be calling their prime minister very soon,” Trump said.US and Mexican negotiators have been working for weeks to iron out differences in order to revise the nearly 25-year old North American Free Trade Agreement, while Canada was waiting to rejoin the negotiations./ AFP PHOTO / MANDEL NGAN US President Donald Trump claimed Tuesday that Google results were “rigged” because searches for “Trump News” brought up negative stories about him, and questioned whether this was illegal. The president has attacked US social media giants in the past days for allegedly censoring conservative voices, an unfounded claim widely believed by his followers. “Google search results for ‘Trump News’ shows only the viewing/reporting of Fake New Media,” the president tweeted on Tuesday. “In other words, they have it RIGGED, for me & others, so that almost all stories & news is BAD. Fake CNN is prominent. Republican/Conservative & Fair Media is shut out. Illegal?” According to Trump, “96% of results on ‘Trump News’ are from National Left-Wing Media,” which he describes as “very dangerous.” “Google & others are suppressing voices of Conservatives and hiding information and news that is good. They are controlling what we can & cannot see. This is a very serious situation-will be addressed!” A Pew Research Center survey released in June found 43 percent of Americans think major technology firms support the views of liberals over conservatives, and 72 percent accepted the idea that social media platforms actively censor opposing political views. Among Republicans and Republican-leaning independents, 85 percent said they think social media sites intentionally censor political viewpoints, Pew found. However various studies suggest conservatives are thriving on social media. Twitter and Facebook have both denied bias in policing their platforms. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .