Amb Oke Idawene addressing members of the party during the meeting in Asaba. Delta State chapter of Social Democratic Party (SDP), has held an affirmative congress in Asaba, to harmonise and assimilate defectors from other political parties as executive members at ward, local government council and state level. On the occasion, the party also condemned the invasion of National Assembly by operatives of Directorate of Security Services (DSS), and revealed that its governorship aspirant, Mr. Mike Diji, would formally declare his intentions next week. Speaking at the event, SDP state chairman, Ambassador Oke Idawene (JP), said: “SDP is with this affirmative congress, as harmonized sending a solid and firm message to other parties in the state that SDP is ready and set to take over Delta State and Nigeria come 2019. “With all the 270 wards, 25 local government councils and state executives, as well as national executive members present, it is apparent that SDP is the real deal. We are not here to promise what we cannot do. We are here on a rescue mission, through a sincere restructuring for a true federalism in Nigeria, which is captured in our manifesto.” Idawene said Delta State chapter of SDP decided to hold the affirmative congress, as harmonized one with the defection of APC members from Sapele, Ika Northeast, Isoko North and south; seventy percent of All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) members in Delta and some Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leaders in Bomadi and other local government areas. So we have to bring some of them to the excos across board. While pleading for the preservation of democracy, the SDP chairman said the invasion of the federal legislature by operatives of DSS was evidence that the “presidency is practicing prison yard democracy.” “That is why we are fighting to break the evil yoke on Nigerians. What is happening is that of a government that is practicing politics of bravado. APC (All Progressives Congress) is a party of lies and propaganda, which was not prepared for leadership; an opportunistic gang that was not prepared for leadership, which is why we want to boot them out,” he stated.According to Idawene, “the invasion of national assembly by DSS is a shame as our constitution provides for a legislative, judiciary and executive independence respectively.” So invading the hallowed chamber where the people we elected to represent us in Abuja is condemnable, Nigerians must resist it and we are going to march on the streets of Delta State and Abuja.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .