Tomatoes Several studies have shown that, while it is impossible to prevent prostrate cancer, certain natural remedies have proved to lower a person’s risk. This study revealed that consumption of certain natural remedies, which contains compounds like lycopene, Isoflavones and Omega-3 fatty acids, reduces the risk of cancers, especially those of the prostate, lung, and stomach. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the best ways to reduce the risk of developing prostate cancer, which is second to skin cancer, is by maintaining a healthful weight, exercising, and eating plenty of fruits and vegetables. The American Cancer Society estimate that approximately 60 percent of all prostate cancer diagnoses occur in males aged 65 or older, as they have a five-year survival rate of 99 percent. Fruits which contain lycopene compound include, Processed tomatoes, including all cooked and canned varieties, grapefruit, watermelon and apricots.
A review from 2016 found that increased tomato consumption resulted in a reduced risk of prostate cancer, though the authors noted that more research is needed. However, foods with the highest concentrations of isoflavones, which is a chemical compound with anti-inflammatory properties, are soybean products, including: Soymilk, Tofu and Miso. Other foods that contain isoflavones include: chickpeas, alfalfa and beans. A study in 2016 concluded that isoflavones could benefit health in several ways, including helping to protect against prostate cancer, while the medical community currently holds that, while isoflavones cannot treat or prevent the disease, they can play a protective role. Also, an additional Omega-3 fatty acids sources, which are present in fish and other types of seafood are found in include: walnuts, flax seeds, and soybeans as evidence shows that the omega-3s fatty acids may reduce prostate cancer risk. Apart from the above listed fruits and food, researchers in 2016 published a review of 105 studies that considered the effects of coffee on cancer risk in which they concluded that coffee and its antioxidant capabilities might reduce the risk of developing prostate cancer and some other types of the disease. Foods to avoid
Although, the above-mentioned compounds reduces the risk of prostrate cancer in men, there are some compounds in foods that may increase a person’s risk of developing prostate cancer. They include:
Selenium and vitamin E, vegetable oils, grilled or fried meats, sugar and carbohydrates. The medical community once considered selenium and vitamin E to be opponents of cancer and more recent research suggests that these compounds, when taken together or in isolation, can increase the risk of prostate cancer in some people. However, avoiding supplements containing vitamin E or selenium and diets excessively high in fat can increase the risk of many types of cancer, as well as the omega-6 fatty acids in vegetable oils may promote the growth of prostate cancer cells. Also, oils derived from corn, sunflowers, safflowers, cottonseed, and soybeans, can contain substantial amounts of omega-6 fatty acids, according to studies. The National Cancer Institute in the United States advised against eating meats cooked at high temperatures, typically by grilling or frying.
According to the institute, when a person cooks muscle meat, including beef, pork, and poultry, at high temperatures, the meat may form chemicals that cause changes in DNA, resulting in an increased risk of cancer. Meanwhile, some studies have suggested that a diet with a high glycemic load may increase the risk of developing prostate cancer. The glycemic load and glycemic index measurements show how quickly carbohydrates and sugars affect a person’s blood sugar and insulin. However, the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute reports that, “while the relationship between sugar and cancer remains complex, sugar may have the highest impact on the risk of prostate, colorectal and pancreatic cancers.” Although, serveral studies have suggested that a lifestyle, which includes exercise and a healthful diet can help to reduce the risk of prostate cancer, however, attending regular checkups and screenings remains the best way to handle this risk. “Speak with a doctor before trying natural or alternative ways to prevent cancer.” The researcher cautioned.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .