Senator Iyiola Omisore An Osun State High Court in Osogbo has struck out the suit challenging Senator Iyiola Omisore as the standard-bearer of the Social Democratic Party, (SDP). In a separate ruling, the court also dismissed a fresh suit challenging the eligibility of Senator Ademola Adeleke as the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the September 22 governorship election. Omisore’s case was struck out following the plaintiff’s application for withdrawal of the suit, after intervention by some stakeholders. Two state officers of the SDP, Rasheed Mayowa and Azeez Alakinde-Ismaila had approached the court to stop the national body of the party from organising any fresh congress in the state. They alleged that the congress, which produced Omisore as the party’s candidate was illegal, having being conducted in contravention of two court orders. The applicants’ lawyer, Olayinka Sokoya told the court that the matter was beyond the internal running of the party, but premised on the constitution of the party. Sokoya had maintained that the defendants disposition against his applications before the court be discountenanced, insisting that disobeying court orders had rendered everything done by Omisore’s group null and void. He however prayed the court to sack all the executives elected by the factional SDP congress, led by Dr. Bayo Faforiji and “declare all actions taken by them so far, including the primaries it conducted which produced Senator Omisore as unconstitutional.” The SDP lawyer, Kehinde Adesiyan had also asked the court to dismiss in its entirety all the applications filed by the applicants, arguing that the court lacks jurisdiction to entertain the suit in the first instance. The case was however struck out by Justice Oladimeji after settlement out of court by both parties in the case. Also, in the case of Adeleke, the Presiding Judge, Justice David Oladimeji dismissed the suit following the plaintiffs’ withdrawal of the case against the candidate. At the resumed hearing of the case, after a fresh suit seeking an interlocutory injunction restraining Adeleke from parading himself as the candidate of the Osun PDP over alleged certificate forgery, counsel to the plaintiff, Abdulramon Okunade, told the court that his clients had reached an agreement to withdraw the suit and asked for an adjournment. This was despite objection by the defence counsel, Nathaniel Oke (SAN) against an adjournment.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .