 couple on a date Photo Mi&u  I didn’t read at first because I was still trying to get something on my empty document sheet. But then I decided to look through, maybe I could get some form of inspiration of some sort. And then when I read through her message and the link she sent me, I was excited because I then had something to share with you guys. After reading through this piece, I just shook my head in amazement on how absolutely correct and on point this piece was. It was spot on. We tend to wonder how our behavior in relationships cause heartbreaks or divorce in other cases. But in this newsletter, I found out that it is the hurt from a past relationship that we bring into the new ones we go into that actually damages and breaks the relationship up. Please read through and understand and I hope you learn a thing or two. Cheers. Too many of you say that women do not really want a nice guy. You firmly believe from your bad experiences that most women actually enjoy being treated badly. I can assure you this is not true. Your words and your actions can have effects on a woman that will last her a lifetime. That cruel comment you made about her mother, that day you were so angry you called her out of her name, those times you ignored her for no reason at all, the times you chose not to text or call and decided your friends were more important than she was, the times you didn’t open her car door, or walk her to her front door like a lady, she carries those in her mind. And she carries them over to the next man. Women remember every nice thing you do or say in the same way they remember every pitiless thing. When you are good to a woman, even if it ends for whatever reason, she will always remember you. You may never know that, but she will. She will think about the way you made her laugh or the way you dried her tears. She will remember the way she could speak to you for hours. She will remember that you made her feel like a woman, that even when she was wrong, you still made her feel like a woman. You will be the standard for all of the men in her life that follow. If they can’t compete with you or do better, they become bottom of the barrel. You are the man whose shoes no one has yet to outshine. Continue to be that man because there is a woman who is going to adore you and appreciate you for everything you are worth. A woman may choose to stay with a man who treats her badly because she fell in love with him during a time when he was pretending to be pleasant (somewhere in the beginning stages of their relationship). However, she won’t last with a man who is malicious for the rest of her life. Over time, every mean or hurtful thing that man does will begin to build up inside of her like boiling water. That woman who was once in love and who once catered to her man’s every whim will begin to fall out of love. She will become less caring, and less nurturing. Her heart will grow colder. He won’t see it, not until it is too late. He is blind and will continue to mistreat her. An ignorant man will seal his own fate. He will think its okay to treat his woman this way. She loves him so she is sure to stay. That man has no idea that his woman has an icy storm brewing inside of her heart. Where love once lived is a heart now torn apart. She loves him so much or so he believes. He knows she will stay, but what he chooses not to see is her mind has already broken away. So you have an option. Treat your women right or don’t, but when you end up alone and can’t figure out what was the matter just remember that woman whose heart you shattered. You can never take away the words you said. They will live with her until the day she is dead. So watch your words and be kind, not cruel, or you may end up sad and lonely. There is only so much one heart can handle; only so much one girl can handle before she breaks. Most women truly do not want much. It isn’t a lot to send her a good morning text. It isn’t a lot to call her on your free time. It isn’t a lot to take her out on dates and spend one on one time with her. It isn’t a lot to watch your mouth. It isn’t a lot to treat her like a woman. She will love and adore you for it. There is a saying that whatever you give a woman she will give you ten times more. That saying couldn’t be truer. So if you want to be adored, and spoiled and loved, you must stop being vicious, selfish, and rude. Nice guys do not finish last. Truly nice guys get the girl in the end. At the end of the day, no matter how much money you make or how many muscles you have, a woman looking for real love is going to find her worth, along with a man who deserves her. Your money will be spent, and your looks are sure to go, but if you have a good heart, love can flourish. So be the nice guy or risk losing your women to men who are far better than you ever could be. This does not mean that you allow yourselves to be treated badly either, but it means opening your heart to good women. It means being a compromising person. It means being forgiving, and nurturing… the kind of man who would make a good husband and father. Do not be a doormat for a woman who does not appreciate you; however, if your woman loves and adores you, be kind because if you don’t, you will lose her in the end. To our happiness. Cheers.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .