Hundreds of young contestants showcased different astonishing skills during the maiden Football Dance Competition audition, which held at the Teslim Balogun Stadium yesterday.The competition, which aims at bringing out hidden football talents in young lads, as well as rewarding creativity in dance, saw contestants from different parts of Lagos State displaying their football dance skills. Speaking at the occasion, the originator of the event and Chief Executive Officer, TOWAS Entertainment, Alayoteju Onasanya, said the programme was not all about the competition, but a platform to catch youths young, “it is an avenue for them to be unique in what they do, to be creative and to show what they can do with football while dancing,” she said.    She thanked the Lagos State Sports Commission and Lagos State Football Association for being a part of the great vision. “The concept of the football dance competition is a vision and a help programme, to bring out the best from the youths, for them to use their skills and be creative in what they believe in,” Onasanya continued: “They are using what they have to get something good out of it and for them to have fun. Football dance competition will take them to another level. It will be a thing of joy when some of the participants will lay account of their life story and make reference to Football Dance Competition as part of their story.” She added that the platform would present them before football scouts and not only entertainment.“This platform is also for them to be fished out. Somebody must be out there ready to pick any of them and push them forward and not just about entertainments,” she said. Onasanya told The Guardian yesterday that the grand finale, which holds on Saturday, comes with lots of package, as there would be side attractions and those qualified from the audition will perform, while the winners would go home with gifts like laptops, phones and bicycles, among others. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .