 Senator Iyiola Omisore  Omisore said rather than moving to the party, some PDP chieftains will soon defect to support his campaign to fulfill his long-standing ambition to govern Osun State.
The SDP candidate revealed alleged plan by Governor Rauf Aregbesola to “ensure that Osun state remains indebted to him and his cronies for at least, a period of 15 years.” He said the plan is contained in a fake contract document, titled the “Award of Contract for Dualisation of Ereja Square-Imo-Ilesa-Akure Expressway, Rehabilitation of Ereja Square, and Irojo- Ilesa/Akure Expressway. Others are Majestic uplift and Redefinition of Ilesa City Centre and Rehabilitation, Rehabilitation of Akoda-Ede-Ara-Ejigbo, Iwo-Osogbo (Testing Ground) and Kelebe-Iragbiji road, which were awarded for N14.4billion.He claimed that the Office of the Accountant General had been directed to issue an Irrevocable Stranding Payment Order (ISPO) in favour of Slavaborgu Nigeria Ltd. Under the arrangement, monies due to Osun State government from the federation would be subjected as first line charge, to a monthly deduction at source, of N337million, which would be paid to the company for 15 years. Omisore also cited credit facilities obtained by the Aregbesola administration, which were designed to siphon funds from the state treasury. He said: “Even as we speak, the Aregbesola’s government has started preparing post contract ‘variation reports’ on all projects it executed in the past eight years.
“It is against this background that the struggle and contest for continuity by the APC and its offshoot in the ADP is situated, and should be understood by all.” He urged President Muhammadu Buhari and the Finance Minister to disallow the latest N337 million monthly deductions from Osun state coffers into the account of any bogus company. Oba Aromolaran, who prayed for Omisore’s success, however said as a traditional ruler, his role is to ensure that peace reigns before, during and after the September 22, governorship election in the state.The monarch advised politicians to conduct violence-free campaigns that are based on issues to move the state forward. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .