Enyeama Nigeria goalkeeping legend Vincent Enyeama has left French league side Lille after seven years. The Ligue 1 side and the goalkeeper came to an agreement for his contract to be terminated. Enyeama moved to Lille from Hapoel Tel-Aviv in the summer of 2011. He spent the 2012-2013 season away from France with Maccabi Tel-Aviv before he returned to stake a claim as the no 1 for Lille. The shot-stopper broke in to the side under Rene Girard in the 2013-2014 season In a statement published on their official website, Lille said:”Beyond his performances, LOSC and his supporters will remember Vincent’s smile and enthusiasm. The club now wishes him the best in his future projects.” Enyeama played 164 games for Les Douges, where he was awarded the Marc-Vivien Foé award for the best African player in Ligue 1 in 2014. In that season, Enyeama went 1,062 minutes without conceding a goal. He was only 114 minutes from breaking the Ligue 1 goalkeeping record set by  Gaëtan Huard  in 1993. The 36-year old got to the final of the Coupe de la Ligue in 2016 but lost to Paris Saint-Germain. In a post on his verified Twitter handle, Enyeama confirmed his departure from the club while thanking the fans and the staff. “The adventure has ended,” Enyeama said. “I thank the Lille supporters for their incredible support during these seven years, which were, for me, years of happiness and joy. Thank you, a thousand times, thank you, for this love that you’ve given me.” “You will always have a special place in my heart. Your songs and your cheers will stay engraved forever. Love you guys!” Enyeama continued. “Thank you also to all of the staff of LOSC, the medical staff, with a particular mention to all of the reserve team in N2 [The French Championnat National 2], and their medical staff.” Enyeama started his playing career at Ibom stars in Nigeria before he joined Enyimba where he won the two CAF Champions League titles. He had 101 international appearances before he retired in 2015.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .