Video games have been around since the early 1970s, sucking children into a beautiful world of gaming. Over the years, the love for video games has evolved through the generations. But amidst the plethora of games that flooded the market in those days, some thrilling games stood out of the crowd for excellence, carving a niche for themselves in the heart and mind of gamers. Pokemon red and blue versions. Photo: YouTube Developed by Game Freak and published by Nintendo for the Game Boy in 1996, this game brought the legendary fictional creatures called Pokémon into the limelight. Humans in the game had to catch and train Pokémon to battle each other for sport. The special versions had the exclusive first-generation Pokémon with their major differences found in their story elements and features. Read More: Take A Look At These Photos That Changed The World Sonic the Hedgehog. Photo: Polygon One of the most addictive video games that reigned in the 90s, this epic thriller entered the market in 1991, bringing the speed of light along with it. Published by Sega, the game followed the adventures of Sonic, a blue hedgehog with supersonic speed, and Tails in a quest to rescue animals from being turned into robots by the mad scientist, Dr Ivo Robotnik and restore peace to South Island. Street Fighter. Photo: Polygon Before the imaginative Mortal Kombat with its gory and thrilling fatalities hit the market, there was the popular one-on-one fighting game, Street Fighter. Originally developed and published by Capcom in 1987, the series saw players take control of martial artist Ryu competing in a worldwide tournament. He could perform various punch and kick attacks, each varying in speed and strength. Super Mario. Photo: Digital Spy Who can forget the guy in the red plumber overalls journeying through eight world and pounding goombas to rescue Princess Peach? The first version of this game was released in 1996 in SNES. With its simple controls and catchy theme song, it easily won an eternal place in our childhood memories. Mario and Luigi have been readopted in several movies and video games over the years. Tetris gameplay. Photo: YouTube The gaming journey of many millennials began with this addictive brick game. It was handy, easily accessible, manageable and so much fun. The tile-matching puzzle video game had us embracing our universal desire to create order out of chaos. Originally designed and programmed by Russian game designer Alexey Pajitnov, the game was released in 1984 on the Gameboy.