 [File] Brenda and Kenneth  The festival will present groundbreaking performances in film, theatre and music and showcase these events simultaneously with the 2018 edition of Africa International Film Festival (AFRIFF). The inaugural festival holds from November 11 to 18. The festival of performing arts and interdisciplinary conversations feature local and international artistes from South Africa, U.K., U.S., Ghana, Senegal, Zimbabwe and the Republic of Benin. The festival is in partnership with Africa International Film Festival (AFRIFF), Women In the Arts Festival, Access Africa Festival and Freedom Park. Uphopho said, “we are pushing beyond the usual boundaries in the arts by collaborating with existing platforms to create an experience of a lifetime for artistes and creatives. This year, the focus is on diversity and inclusion in the arts, a development that has birthed creative exchange that will feature industry experts, curators and professionals engaging with emerging artistes for three days during the festival.” This first edition is scheduled to hold in over 15 separate venues, with Freedom Park as the main hub. It will present a programme curated with the idea to address audience development and the creative case for diversity in the general arts, theatre and film culture in Lagos. The programme will include plays, showcases, panel discussions, masterclasses, and screening of short, student and documentary films that will be selected from submissions to Africa International Film Festival (AFRIFF). The screenings and panel discussions will be free to the public. One of the venues will be Terra kulture, which will present the opening events the festival such as, the unveiling of the Lagos Fringe Advisory Board, Recognition Awards to deserving practitioners for their contributions to the arts and an opening musical play performance. Producer of the festival, Brenda Fashugba, who spoke on the programming, said it would be exciting and rich in diverse art forms, especially in encouraging more women, persons living with disabilities and other marginalised demography to express themselves. Some of the events will hold in venues  across Lagos Mainland and they include, University of Lagos, Lagos State University and the two colleges of education in the state, as well as Bariga, Alimosho, Ikeja, Surulere and National Theatre. The goal is to raise awareness on inclusion and inspire standards for students and performing artistes. At the other venues, AFRIFF will host programmes that include, seminars, trainings and conference on topics affecting the film industry today. The discussions will tackle different topics ranging from film production, funding, regulatory and distribution issues. These venues will also be a home to screening of shorts, documentary, animation and film. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .