President Muhammadu Buhari • Congratulates Adeboye at 76
President Muhammadu Buhari has, in Abuja, declared that his administration is targeting self-sufficiency in food production and consumption, while radically cutting down on imports of agricultural products that depleted the country’s foreign reserve in the past. Receiving a letter of credence from the High Commissioner of Republic of Singapore to Nigeria, Mr. Lim Sim Seng, yesterday in Abuja, President Buhari said the era of high import bills on food was fast becoming a thing of the past with growing investments in the agricultural sector, favourable weather and collective will of Nigerians to start feeding themselves, and exporting products. He said: “I am very pleased with the relationship we have with Singapore, and we are benefiting a lot from your experiences and investment. “Recently, I was in Kaduna to commission one of your investments in agriculture. We are happy that you are also looking at the agricultural sector because that is integral to our economic blueprint for diversifying the economy.’’ The President said bilateral relations with Singapore would be further strengthened so that both countries can enjoy the benefits of competitive advantage, especially in exchange of ideas and technology that will enhance growth and improvement in the livelihood of citizens. President Buhari, who also received letters of credence from the High Commissioner of Republic of The Philippines, Mrs. Shirley Ho-Vicaria and High Commissioner of the Republic of Uganda, Nelson Ocheger, assured the countries of Nigeria’s cooperation on economic, security and diplomatic issues. Responding, the High Commissioner of Singapore said his country could go into partnership with Nigeria in exchange of technical skills, training of entrepreneurs and public servants. Describing Nigeria as the “big brother of Africa,’’ Seng said an investment in the country will naturally result in growth for the entire continent. President Buhari has meanwhile, congratulated the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye, on his 76th birthday. Buhari in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina yesterday also extended warm felicitations to the family and friends of the highly revered preacher and teacher of the word of God under whose leadership, since 1981, the church has grown to become one of the largest congregations in the world, with parishes in almost all countries. The president affirmed that the exemplary leadership he provided has resulted in an exponential growth of the church, which directly translates into development of infrastructure, building of educational and health institutions, as well as vocational centres that have created a means of livelihood for many Nigerians.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .