Super Eagles’ goalkeepers trainer, Aloy Agu (middle) flanked by Ikechukwu Ezenwa (left) and Dele Ajiboye during preparations for the Morocco 2018 CHAN, which Nigeria won the silver medal. • Says Mikel needs rigorous training
• Moses hits camp for Poland clash Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr admitted yesterday that the team has a goalkeeping problem ahead of the Russia 2018 World Cup. Nigeria will face Poland in a pre-World Cup friendly tomorrow before taking on Serbia four days later in London. Rohr told Przegląd Sportowy yesterday that one of the problems he must fix before the World Cup was the goalkeeping area. ‘’It is true we have a goalkeeping problem. Our problem is Ikeme’s illness (he was diagnosed with leukemia).” He did not give details on how he was going to provide solution to the goalkeeping problem. Rohr also stated that his captain, John Obi Mikel, would have to undergo rigorous training with the Super Eagles ahead of the World Cup, bearing it in mind that the Chinese Super League is not too competitive. The Tianjin Teda star will be missing when the Eagles file out against Poland tomorrow as he is said to be renewing his work permit in China. Asked if Mikel’s transfer to China is a problem, Rohr told Przegld Sportowy: ‘’It might be a problem once, but the level has risen there. Before the World Cup there will be a break to bring the players to a good physical condition.’’ Read More: Mikel, Moses cannot win matches alone, says Rohr Prior to Rohr’s appointment as Nigeria coach in 2016, he managed other African teams and has stated that he likes working in Africa. ‘’I like working in Africa. I coached teams in France for many years and in each of them I had a good relationship with Africans. ‘’Then I went to Tunisia until I started leading the African team. I enjoyed it because I was doing well,’’ Rohr stated. Meanwhile, Chelsea wing-back, Victor Moses finally surfaced at the Eagles camp yesterday in Poland according to allnigeriasoccer.com. Moses was confirmed to be with the Eagles at the Radisson Blu Hotel camp in Wroclaw amid uncertainty surrounding his whereabouts. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .