Sunshine Stars of Akure and Kwara United yesterday sacked their coaches, Duke Udi and John Obuh respectively for reasons ranging from poor performance to indiscipline.Duke Udi, who saved Sunshine Stars from being relegated to the lower division last season, was yesterday ordered by the owners of the club, Ondo State government, to step aside with immediate effect over alleged insubordination and misconduct. The step aside order was contained in a statement in Akure by the Ondo State’s Commissioner for Sports and Youth Development, Mr. Saka Yusuf-Ogunleye. Udi was directed to hand over to the former coach of the team, Mr. Henry Abiodun.Yusuf-Ogunleye said his ministry took the decision following letters received from the Ondo State Football Agency over the act of insubordination and gross misconduct of Coach Udi. “The management board and the Ministry of Youth and Sports management at a joint meeting today agreed that Coach Duke Udi should step aside with effect from today 13th March and the Technical Director of the team, Coach Henry Abiodun of with CAF licence A should lead the team,” the statement partly read. Sunshine Stars is currently occupying the 17 position on the NPFL log with 13 points from 12 matches. It will play Yobe Desert Stars on Sunday in Akure. At Kwara United, former Niger Tornadoes of Minna Coach, Abubakar Bala has been appointed as the new technical adviser of the team following the resignation of John Obuh. According to a statement by the club’s Media Officer, Abdulwaheed Bibire, Obuh recently resigned following the poor performance of the club in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL). Bala is expected to be unveiled to the public today at the Indoor Hall of Kwara State Stadium Complex, Ilorin. Bala, who was relieved of his duties at Niger Tornadoes before the commencement of the 2017/2018 NPFL season, qualified the Minna team for the 2017 Aiteo Cup final, where it lost on penalties to Akwa United at the Agege Stadium, Lagos  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .