Seasons may come and go but style is forever. How style is achieved is something that cannot be taught, or at least it should not be, because style, believe or not, is in our genes. A person least enthusiastic about fashion will believe that style has nothing to do with them. However, that is not true because, as long as you select and wear clothes, you are making a style choice. Despite, how out-of-touch it may seem and uninterested you may be. To become fully confident in what you choose to wear, you must first know your style. This is not a your-find-your-style-guide but a guide to know which style you already have and how to fully embrace it. Read More: These Five Cool New Gadgets Will Make Your Life Easier Here are a few style categories you may fall into: This fashion style encompasses classy and a bit of glamour. The chic style is clean, somewhat minimal in aesthetics and well-tailored. Elegance and smart-looking are what a chic person aims to achieve while keeping comfort in mind. A typical chic look could be well tailored white trousers paired with a button-down black shirt. This look is clean, minimal and timeless; it cuts across everything a chic person aspires to. Rita Dominic in a chic look. Photo credit: 4bp Jim Iyke looking chic. Photo: glamandessence Androgynous style for a woman means wearing men-inspired clothing and vice versa for a man. This is not to be confused with cross-dressing, which means men wearing clothes meant for women or vice versa. The key with androgyny is taking inspiration from the opposite sex’s style. This could be anything from strong blazers for women, to short shorts for men. Janelle Monae in a power suit. Photo credit: Andrew Harnik/AP/REX/Shutterstock Noble Igwe in short shorts. Photo credit: omgvoice Some people are unaware of this style identity. You hear people say things like: “I am not interested in fashion, I just throw on a T-shirt and denim trousers with sandals and I’m out of the door.” Even when you make these choices that might seem menial to you, you’ve actually made a style choice. This look is laid-back, with no fuss and minimal effort needed. A casual style is no less important than other more complicated styles; it is just a preference. Toke Makinwa rocking a casual look. Photo credit Mojidelano Uti Nwachukwu in a casual look. Photo credit Farabaleweekly What is your style? Read More: Omoyemi Akerele: The Woman Behind Lagos Fashion Week