 Kenfield Griffith, Co-founder mSurvey  To officiate the move into Nigeria, mSurvey held a DEMO day for journalists in Lagos where they had the opportunity to see how the company uses technology to connect with consumers via mobile messaging to obtain real-time consumer feedback. Journalists also had the opportunity to discover how mSurvey’s platform is promoting customer experience and driving business growth across Africa. Using cloud computing connected directly to mobile network operators, mSurvey’s platform enables a two-way dialogue on any topic, with a selected audience, allowing businesses to gather insights from real people, in real-time. In less than five minutes, any business, organisation or entrepreneur can start a conversation with select people or diverse populations using mSurvey’s feedback platform and analytics engine. Dr. Kenfield Griffith, mSurvey CEO and co-Founder says: “West Africa is an extremely important market for us to expand into, and we are excited to be bringing mSurvey products, as well as the Net Promoter Score to Nigeria. From initial conversations with businesses from corporate to SME-size here, it is clear that there is a growing trend in the country to add value to the bottom line, through improved and more granular understanding of customers, powered by tech and mobile.” mSurvey is the first to implement Net Promoter Score [NPS], the internationally recognised benchmarking practice used to gauge the loyalty of a brand’s customer relationships and their overall perception of a brand, in Africa. One Kenyan company who implemented NPS has recorded a revenue turn around of 800%. Java House, a leading Kenyan consumer brand, has also implemented NPS and recorded strong results, with the CEO, Ken Kuguru confirmed for the Nigeria mSurvey NPS Masterclass. Introduced in 2003, NPS has been adopted by more than two-thirds of Fortune 1000 companies, including Apple, Sony, Amazon, British Airways and Tesla, and is a tool used to drive business growth by measuring the loyalty that exists between a provider and consumer. It is based on responses to how likely a consumer would recommend a company, product or service on a 0 to 10 scale.Following from its success in Kenya, mSurvey will be hosting the second Customer Loyalty NPS Masterclass in Lagos on March 20th and March 21st, 2018. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .