Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Nasarawa State Chapter, on Saturday donated relief materials to Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in the state. Joseph Masin, State’s Chairman of CAN, made the donation of the relief materials to the IDPs in Obi Local Government Area (LGA). News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the IDPs, who are mostly Tiv people, were chased from their communities bordering Benue State by suspected herdsmen. The IDPs are currently camped in Obi, Keana, Awe and Doma Local Government Areas (LGAs) of the state. The Chairman said they were not only there to distribute relief materials but to also share in their pains and identify with them. He added that the IDPs were not only chased from their communities by the suspected herdsmen, but their loved ones were also killed by the attackers. “It is a very pathetic situation to see children, women and the aged being forced and dislodged from their homes. He, however, commended the Federal Government for deploying military personnel to the border towns, saying that they should go to remote communities. He also advised the IDPs not to take laws into their hands and urged the security agencies to always be proactive rather than reactive. The CAN Chairman, therefore, called on the Federal Government to drop the idea of cattle colonies and adopt ranches system as it is the only way to curtail herdsmen/farmers crisis. Read More: 10 killed in attack on Plateau rural communities Receiving the items on behalf of the IDPs, Abraham Ogba expressed gratitude to the religion body for the kind gesture. He commended the government for the deployment of military personnel to the area. He, therefore, appealed to the government and the security agencies to facilitate their return to their communities. The highlight of occasion includes special prayers for the return of peace and normalcy in the area and donation of items like rice, yam and assorted clothes. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .