 Voter registration. PHOTO: NTA.ng  Akwa Ibom Christian Assembly (ACA) has said prayers alone will not be enough to  put righteous leaders in different elective position in 2019.It  called on eligible voters in the state to participate in the ongoing voter registration exercise, which will only enable them to vote in the 2019 general elections. The secretary of ACA, Pastor Umo Bassey Eno made this know during a rally in Eket Senatorial District to sensitize eligible voters on the very need to register and get the INEC PVCs. Eno who is also the General Overseer of  All Nation Christian Ministry International said individual vote will count this time around, hence the urgent need for eligible voters in the state, especially Christians to obtain their PVCs, which will enable them vote, the righteous into power. Also, the General Overseer of the House of Faith Christian Centre, Ado Ekiti, Pastor Tunde Afe, has advised Ekiti electorate to reject the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the July 14 governorship election, saying that they have failed to bring the desired change from poverty to prosperity. Afe, said  the two dominant political parties have failed the people in the past, adding that they cannot be good platform for visionary and God anointed candidate to aspire to lead Ekiti State into its desired change. At the weekend during a media parley with reporters in Ado Ekiti to announce his intention to contest the governorship of the state, he said that the trajectory of politics in the state  since 1999 shows that both the PDP and APC have failed the people. In another development, no fewer than five of the 36 serving governors, 20 senators and some members of the House of Representatives have concluded plan to join the Social Democratic Party (SDP).The National Publicity Secretary of the party, Alfa Mohammed who disclosed this yesterday in Minna, also said that 50 Civil Society Organisations have also embraced the party in a coalition movement to unseat the ruling APC in 2019.He explained that the mass movement of prominent politicians from both APC and PDP to the SDP last Thursday was a kick starter for the chunk of other politicians and civil societies eager to join the party. According to him, five governors have indicated serious interests in joining the party and have been sending representatives to its negotiation meetings, adding that discussions have been on for some months with the governors.The National publicity secretary said that the national secretariat of the party has directed all state offices to commence registration of new members at ward levels as from today. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .