Black Panther continued its record-setting romp this weekend, passing the half-billion-dollar mark in only its third week out in North America as it stayed on track to be one of the highest-grossing films ever, industry analysts said. Black Panther. Photo credit: QuirkyByte The Disney/Marvel collaboration, starring Chadwick Boseman as the superhero king of an idyllic if fictional African country, took in an estimated $65.7 million for the three-day weekend, website Exhibitor Relations reported. Read More: See what your favourite celebs wore to A Night In Wakanda That take, nearly four times the $17 million earned by the weekend’s No. 2 movie — Red Sparrow from Fox — gave Black Panther the third-highest weekend ever, trailing only Star Wars: The Force Awakens at N32.472 billion ($90.2 million) and Avatar at N24.66 billion ($68.5 million), according to Variety.com. Black Panther, which also stars Lupita Nyong’o, Michael B. Jordan, Daniel Kaluuya and Martin Freeman, has now taken in nearly N324 billion ($900 million) globally, with its opening in China still days away. Red Sparrow tells the story of Russian ballerina-turned-elite spy Jennifer Lawrence. She is backed by an all-star cast including Matthias Schoenaerts, Jeremy Irons and Charlotte Rampling. Red Sparrow In the third spot was MGM’s new release Death Wish, with ticket sales of $13 million. The thriller stars Bruce Willis as a doctor who goes vigilante after an attack on his family. The cast includes Vincent D’Onofrio and Elisabeth Shue. Next was comedy thriller Game Night from Warner Bros., taking in $10.7 million. The movie, starring Jason Bateman and Rachel McAdams, tells the story of six friends who get together for beer and games and stumble into a reality game where lives may be at stake. And in fifth place was Sony’s Peter Rabbit, taking in $10 million in its fourth week out. The film, which mixes live actors with computer-generated animation, is based loosely on the children’s book by Beatrix Potter. Rounding out the top 10 were: ***AFP Read More: “The Wedding Party 2”: Taking Nollywood Global