 Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode  Ambode said this at the second edition of Bola Tinubu Youth Summit in Lagos.The governor  represented by his Deputy, Dr Idiat Adebule, explained that the summit was to enlighten the public on the Nigerian political, social and economic systems. According to him, it is part of the activities lined up for the 66th birthday celebration of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Sen. Bola Tinubu. Ambode said he would continue to run a government of inclusion with a level-playing ground for everyone to contribute to the growth and development of the state and the  nation at large. He  stated that the summit was apt especially with the clamour for increased participation of youths in governance and the Not-Too-Young-To-Run Bill that was fast gaining ground at the National Assembly. “I urge youths in the country to be steadfast and continue to demonstrate good character in their quest to make positive difference in governance. “Show strong determination and draw inspirations from leaders who are selfless with positive ideas, policies and ideologies” he said. The governor also eulogised Tinubu for his leadership . He said that his numerous contributions to the evolution and sustenance of democratic governance and ideals in Nigeria were  widely acknowledged not only by Nigerians but across the globe. “The template for a new and modern Lagos which has made the state a reference point for good governance was developed by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, “His passion for good governance, selflessness, doggedness and ability to groom young leaders made him to stand tall among leaders across the world. ” This administration will continue to work hard to build on the legacies of the founding fathers of the state. “I’m urging the youth to make good use of the opportunity created by Tinubu’s political ideology, which recognises and allows young people’s participation in governance. “Always engage yourselves in intellectual discussions on leadership ideologies and vision for good governance and development’’ he said. Mr Festus Keyamo delivered  a lecture on the topic – ‘Making Nigeria Work: Synergy between Leadership and the New Generation’. Keyamo said that the nation had abundant human and material resources to drive development. He said that leadership had been a major hindrance to allow for any meaningful development. “I’m calling on our leaders to effectively utilise the nation’s economic resources to provide infrastructure and cater for the social needs of the masses” he said. Keyamo commended President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration for its fight against corruption.He said that corruption was one of the factors militating against the country’s development since independence. “I urge Mr President not to relent in spite of many forces that are standing against the crusade; the  people will not forget his administration’s contributions to the ethical rebirth of a new Nigeria ” Keyamo said. In his remarks, Mr Akanbi Afonja, Convener of the summit, said the summit which had become an annual event was to appreciate Tinubu’s contributions to democracy in Nigeria. Afonja said that his group believed that leaders such as Tinubu who provided his people with good governance and built other leaders should be celebrated when they were still alive.He urged youths to be very objective and focused while they make constructive criticism where necessary to challenge those in position of authority.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .