A picture taken in 2013 in Avranches and obtained from La Gazette de la Manche local newspaper on March 24, 2018 shows French Lieutenant Colonel Arnaud Beltrame who was killed after swapping himself for a hostage in a rampage and siege in the town of Trebes, southwestern France, on March 23. Beltrame, 45, was among a group of officers who rushed to the scene in Trebes, near Carcassone, on March 23 after a gunman who claimed allegiance to the Islamic State group, stormed a supermarket and fired at shoppers. Beltrame offered to take the place of a woman the gunman had taken hostage and was shot. He died on March 24 of his wounds, becoming the gunman’s fourth victim. / AFP PHOTO / LA GAZETTE DE LA MANCHE / – A French policeman who died after offering himself in exchange for a hostage in a supermarket siege was hailed a hero Saturday, as anti-terror investigators probed the most serious jihadist attack of Emmanuel Macron’s presidency. Lieutenant-Colonel Arnaud Beltrame, 45, was shot and stabbed after taking the place of a woman whom gunman Radouane Lakdim had been using as a human shield during Friday’s attack in the southwestern town of Trebes. Beltrame died of his wounds early Saturday, becoming the fourth victim in the shooting spree claimed by the Islamic State group. Macron led tributes to the elite officer, saying Beltrame “died a hero” and deserved “the respect and admiration of the whole nation”. The 25-year-old gunman had already killed the supermarket’s butcher and a customer before shooting Beltrame, prompting police to move in and kill the attacker. Earlier Friday Lakdim hijacked a car in nearby Carcassonne and shot the two people inside, killing the passenger and leaving the Portuguese driver in a critical condition. He also shot and wounded a police officer out jogging. Lakdim, a petty criminal who had been monitored over fears he had been radicalised, was armed with a gun, knife and homemade explosive devices, a security source said. His partner and a 17-year-old friend were in custody as investigators sought to understand events leading up to the attack. Investigators found notes at Lakdim’s home which referred to IS, a legal source said, including a hand-written letter in which he claimed allegiance to the jihadist group. The shootings come as France remains on high alert following a string of deadly attacks that have killed more than 240 people since 2015. Gunman was suspected radical
Lakdim, a Moroccan-born French national, fit a familiar profile as a petty criminal who had turned to extremism. A small-time drug-dealer, his rap sheet included convictions for carrying a banned weapon and for drug use. He spent a month in jail in 2016. “He had been on a watchlist for his radicalisation and links to the Salafist movement,” said top anti-terror prosecutor Francois Molins. But Interior Minister Gerard Collomb said that ultimately, authorities had concluded Lakdim did not pose a risk. “He did this suddenly,” Collomb said. Lakdim burst into the supermarket “shouting ‘Allahu Akbar’ (God is greatest) and saying he was a soldier of the Islamic State, ready to die for Syria”, Molins said. He further demanded the release of certain prisoners — notably, according to a security source, Salah Abdeslam, prime suspect in the November 2015 Paris terror attacks. ‘We felt powerless’
IS claimed the attack was in response to its call to target Western enemies, as is customary when the assailant has pledged allegiance to the jihadists. Experts said the attack showed the evolving nature of the IS threat, seeking to inspire lone-wolf attacks in its name as its self-proclaimed “caliphate” in Syria and Iraq crumbles. “The persistence of the homegrown threat has largely escaped public debate in comparison to concern over jihadists coming home after fighting in Syria and Iraq,” said Jean-Pierre Filiu, Middle Eastern Studies professor at Sciences Po university. France has suffered a series of major Islamist attacks over the past three years, including the massacre at the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo, the November 2015 attacks that killed 130 in Paris, and the 2016 Bastille Day truck attack in Nice. A state of emergency after the Paris attacks was only lifted in October and thousands of troops continue to patrol the streets under an anti-terror operation. Police union Synergie noted that France’s security forces have become “particular targets for supporters of this deadly extremist ideology”. Beltrame is the ninth police officer or soldier to be killed since 2012 by jihadists in France, a country which is part of the US-led coalition fighting IS. The attack has rocked Trebes, a sleepy town of 5,000 located on the picturesque Canal du Midi. “We thought this only happened in big towns,” said a 52-year-old restaurant-owner who gave her name as Khadija. Supermarket boss Samia Menassi, whose store remains closed and surrounded by police tape, was still in shock Saturday as she recalled hearing the first gunshots. “I said to the girls, ‘Call the police, there’s a terrorist in the shop’,” she told AFP. “We felt powerless because we still had colleagues in there.” Of around 50 people in the store at the time, most were able to get out through an emergency exit, some after sheltering in a meat refrigerator. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .