 Super Eagles’ Coach, Gernot Rohr (right) is expected to show a glimpse of his Russia 2018 first team when Nigeria lines up against Poland in an international friendly game…today.<br />PHOTO: AFP/ AFP PHOTO / PIUS UTOMI EKPEI  On his part, Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr will hand Leicester City forward, Kelechi Iheanacho the No.10 role, usually played by Mikel Obi, in his starting line-up. Mikel will miss this evening’s encounter in Wroclaw as he is battling to renew his work permit in China, but he is expected to join the squad in London for the game against Serbia on Tuesday according to Completesportsnigeria.com. According to a camp source, Iheanacho has been playing off centre forward Odion Ighalo in a 4-2-3-1 formation in training and that the Leicester star is expected to keep his place for the World Cup friendly. “Iheanacho will play Mikel’s position against Poland barring any last minute tactical switch,” the source, a member of the squad, told CSN. “That’s his preferred role and I think he will do well there. He is solid and quick in his decision making.”
The 21-year-old Iheanacho is expected to be the most advanced midfielder ahead of the deeper central midfielders Wilfred Ndidi and Ogenyi Onazi for the game. In the Super Eagles last game against Argentina, Iheanacho and Alex Iwobi were paired in attack as Gernot Rohr deployed a 3-5-2 formation.
The former Manchester City forward curled in a brilliant free-kick as Nigeria came from a goal down to beat Argentina 4-2 at the Krasnodar Stadium in Russia last November. Meanwhile, based on Poland’s two workouts at the old Śląsk Wrocław Stadium, coach Nawalka has opted to deploy an unpopular 3-4-2-1 formation against the Super Eagles, according to allnigeriasoccer.com. This formation is rather untested and they have not used it except during their friendlies in November 2017 against Uruguay and Mexico in which they failed to score any goal. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .