 Lagos Assembly  The Assembly said failure to comply with the directives by the parties involved would attract disciplinary action. The resolution was taken yesterday after the legislators adopted the report of the House Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights, Public Petitions and LASIEC on a petition titled: ‘Complaints Against the Representation of One Mufutau Olamiji as the Bale of Okeegun of Ibeju-Lekki Local Government Area of Lagos State.’ The Chairman of the Committee, Mrs. Funmilayo Tejuoso had read a report over the chieftaincy tussle in Ibeju-Lekki between Ismaila Ogunkoya of Okeegun Odofin and Olajimi of Okeegun Ladeseso. In the report, it was noted that only Okeegun Odofin, Okeegun School were genuine but the one allegedly created by Onibeju known as Okeegun Ladeseso to which Olamiji laid claim to was unknown in the original layout of Ibeju-Lekki. Tejuoso had explained that Oba Salami wrongly installed Olamiji who was his Personal Assistant as Bale of Aladeseso to override that of Ogunkoya who was seen as not being submissive to the monarch. She also disclosed that the commissioner in agreement with Onibeju installed Olajimi and also bypassed the Committee for Chieftaincy Affairs, adding that Folami also proceeded to the tribunal while the House Committee was conducting its findings. According to Tejuoso, “This was contrary to the directives of the committee that Folami should stay action until necessary findings were concluded.” The Speaker, Mudashiru Obasa however ordered the commissioner and Onibeju to adhere with the resolution, saying failure would attract appropriate sanctions. “We will give them the opportunity to rescind. We will use this as a test case and I am sure they will comply. They should ensure sanity in Okeegun.” Obasa added there is the need to review the law on chieftaincy titles, remuneration and the need to also regulate the way and manner traditional rulers emerge or are installed in the state.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .