PHOTO :Iwin.org.ng Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) says it has installed and energised new transformers, transmission lines in its substations in five states to improve electricity supply in the country. TCN said this in a statement issued by its General Manager, Public Affairs Mrs Ndidi Mbah in Abuja on Monday. She listed the lines to include: 1X60MWA power transformer in Katsina substation, 1X100MVA transformer in Ejigbo substation and 2X60MVA in Odogunyan substation both in Lagos. Others are the 1X60MVA transformer in old Abeokuta substation, and 1X60MVA transformer in Calabar substation. Mbah said TCN had also energised the 5 kilometer transmission line built in collaboration with Enugu Government to power the 1X30MVA Nsukka substation. She said the new transformers had been energised and have started supplying power to various communities where they were installed. “With the new installation of 1x100MVA, the power supply rationing, recently experienced by customers of Ikeja DISCO around Ejigbo is expected to stop. “Installation of another 1X100 MVA to replace the second 1X30MVA in the same substation has also commenced, completion would further boost transmission capacity in that axis.” Mbah said the installation of 1X60MVA transformer at Karu substation, in Abuja had been completed but was undergoing pre-commissioning tests. “Similarly, installation of 1X60MVA at Dan Agundi Substation in Kano has reached advanced stage, so also is the replacement of 1X60MVA LEEEC Model transformer razed by fire during installation in Uyo last week,” Mbah explained. According to her, the management of TCN has assured Nigerians that low quality transformers which are procured in the past will no longer be allowed on the National Grid. “Necessary steps for the fortification and standardisation of substations, lines and major equipment have been taken. “TCN has also for the first time included certification by reputable international testing laboratories as requirement for its procurement,’’ Mbah said. She commended the patience of electricity consumers in Kaduna, whose supply has been affected by the re-conducting of the 132kV transmission line from Mando substation to Kakuri substation. Mbah said the only way TCN’s rehabilitation and expansion programme would benefit the nation was for a commensurate investment in the distribution networks nationwide. She said TCN was aware of locations in its network where improvement was still required and assured that they were being addressed through various installations. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .