 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination.  The JAMB Registrar, Prof Ishiaq Oloyede, had earlier warned parents to steer clear of examination centres, but a parent who identified herself as Mrs. Aderibigbe said, “I had to wait for my child because of unnecessary charges. Candidates are being charged as high as N500 for officials to take care of their belongings outside the examination hall. At Risk Global Digital Institute, Anthony Village,  proprietor of the school, Mr. Emeka Ukpbai, said all necessary arrangement were in place to ensure a hitch-free exercise, and a candidate, who identified herself as Olayinka, confirmed that the examination was devoid of challenges, particularly network problems. Olayinka, one of the hundreds of thousands denied admission into the university system in the 2017 edition, due to lack of space also called for the scrapping of the post-UTME, which she described as a “fraud.”
 
Abayomi Otubela, the proprietor of Lagooz Schools Agege, Lagos, whose school serves as one of the UTME centres, told some parents at the venue that some candidates had difficulties using the computer sets, a development, which made them to panic.“Some of our children are fidgeting because they are not familiar with the use of computers. Some of them could not even navigate to the next subject, so we had to put them through the process before the examination started,” he said.He advised parents to inform those, who had not written the examination, to get familiar with the use of computers and the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) software. Candidates in Benin City, Edo State, yesterday equally tasked the JAMB to be time cautious. One of them, Endurance Abang, complained that the examination was one hour late at his centre. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mr. Abang said that some of the candidates travelled early to their various centres without food only to start waiting for JAMB officials to arrive. Solomon Osarodion, another candidate, who lauded JAMB for the smooth conduct of the examination, also condemned the late commencement of the examination. Also, Idowu Odufoye, an Inspector of Call (IC) from the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) told the NAN that they recorded a hitch-free screening at the centre.“We carried out the screening in four different stages and there was no problem with the candidates. They complied, obeyed instructions and none of them was caught with any incriminating material, Mrs. Odufoye said. In Adamawa State, the Zonal Coordinator JAMB, Mr. Danladi Aliyu, told NAN in Yola the “examination started successfully in five centres in the state, one centre in Mubi and four centres in Yola.He explained that the centres were: Federal University of Technology Mubi; Federal College of Education, Yola; American University of Nigeria, Yola; Aliyu Mustapha College Yola, and Modibbo Adama University of Technology, Yola.On Internet service and other challenges, he said “so far, there has been no case of poor network or missed candidate data.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .