 A scene from the movie, The Eve  Currently slated to hit cinemas nationwide on March 29, The Eve comes on the heels of other successful productions from Cut24, including the critically acclaimed Gidi Blues & 4th Estate. The movie follows a young couple, Funsho and Yewande, who have shockingly varying personalities, and are set to get married in a few days. Just before the wedding, Funsho and his three childhood friends set out to treat the groom to one blissful getaway and a Bachelor’s eve. Things quickly go south and the events and revelations that unfold ultimately raise more questions than answers for the couple. The movie will explore various themes & genres through it’s runtime which is expected to be just under 2 hours and the audience is set to be treated to various musical numbers as the movie has been compared to Nollywood’s response to modern Disney classics. The movie will also become the first Nollywood movie of the modern era to tackle homophobia as part of its subplot. The cast, which features some of Nollywood’s leading women, includes Beverly Naya, Meg Otanwa, Ronke Oshodi & Hauwa Allahbura.Beverly Naya Continues her streak of stellar performances, adding to her already impressive catalogue, which includes playing the lead actress in Lancelot Imasuen’s Living in Exile, which brought her to limelight and acted alongside star actor Desmond Elliot in the movie, which her mother produced. Ronke Oshodi, needs very little introduction, after forging an impressive track record with yoruba movies, she makes an effortless transition into this role playing the feisty aunt of Yewande.Their male counterparts aren’t left behind, with the rapper/singer Efa making a return to acting, alongside a very impressive big screen performance from Adeolu Adefarasin, who has already proven himself as a strong actor in the web series Skinny girl in transit. Kunle Remi and Ghanian Hunk Mawuli Peter Gavor round off a solid male cast, not forgetting the ever hilarious, John Okafor (Mr. Ibu). According to the Executive Producer, Femi Odugbemi, “Passion, longing, and heartbreak are familiar themes to viewers all around the world, but The Eve comes with a fresh perspective. The movie is an engaging love story that explores the themes of weddings, marriage, sex, friendship, dating, cheating, celibacy, partying, and homosexuality in a refreshing, comical and thrilling manner. It’s definitely a must-see for everyone.” Beverly Naya, who plays Yewande says, “my character Yewande is depiction of thousands of Nigerian women and her struggles and motivations are so real and relatable, i think everyone knows a Yewande.”The Eve premieres in cinemas nationwide on March 29, with a Lagos premiere scheduled for March 24, at the Day Dream Pool Club, Landmark Towers, Victoria Island.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .