 A picture taken on March 9, 2018 along a highway in the southern Lebanese coastal city of Tyre shows an electoral billboard for Russian President Vladimir Putin with lettering in Russian reading “18 March 2018”, for the Russian diaspora in the city to vote in the election scheduled on the same date. / AFP PHOTO / Mahmoud ZAYYAT  Asked by the US television network NBC whether he would follow in the footsteps of China’s Xi Jinping, who is eyeing a limitless tenure, Putin insisted he had no such intentions. “I never changed the constitution, I did not do it to suit myself and I have no such plans to do so today,” he said in an interview whose transcript was released by the Kremlin on Saturday. Critics accuse Putin, who was first elected president in 2000 and is running for a fourth term in March 18 polls, of harbouring ambitions to stay in power indefinitely. Putin has always prided himself on respecting the constitution, which bars him from serving more than two presidential terms in a row. In 2008, Putin became prime minister but maintained his grip on power, with his protege Dmitry Medvedev serving as president until 2012 when Putin returned to the Kremlin in the face of huge opposition protests. Read More: Putin ‘couldn’t care less’ about US election interference He rejected suggestions that he could not quit power because it would put him in danger, saying he heard “a lot of ravings on this subject”. “Why do you think after me power in Russia will be necessarily taken over by people who are ready to destroy everything that I have done over the past years?” Putin said. He said he had been thinking about his potential successor since 2000. “It never hurts to think but at the end of the day it will be the Russian people who will decide that,” he added. Putin will run against a motley crew of seven challengers, with his top critic Alexei Navalny barred from contesting the poll because of a criminal conviction his supporters call punishment for challenging the strongman. Putin declined to say whether he could pardon Navalny. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .