 National Chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Chief  Victor Oye  State chairman of the party, Mr. Peter Ezeobi stated during the declaration of Mr. Steve Nwoga to contest the governorship election on the platform of APGA that Imo people demonstrated their acceptance and love for the party in 2011 when they voted out the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) government for Okorocha who vied through their platform. Explaining that the mandate remained sacrosanct and would be revalidated in 2019, Ezeobi stated that the movement of Okorocha into the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the fallout of the 2015 elections where the governorship candidate of APGA came third had not diminished the popularity of the party in the state. To the state chairman, Okorocha was able to defeat then incumbent governor because he ran on APGA’s platform, adding, “no political party could have generated that level of goodwill that propelled the landslide victory in that election.” He explained that the influx of candidates into APGA since the conclusion of the 2015 general elections indicated that it was the only party that could salvage the state from its present woes, stressing that it would provide the platform for the advancement of democracy in the state. Turning to supporters and members of the party that thronged the declaration venue, Ezeobi told them that Nwoga had all it takes to lead the people of the state as governor, explaining that his likes are needed to bring the vibrancy expected in Imo Politics. Read More: ‘APGA owns the mandate Okorocha is exercising’ “For Nwoga to say that he will continue to support the party whether he wins or not means a lot to every progressive minded party man and woman and we are sincerely very grateful that he is not looking at the race as a do or die one. We shall show him support and he will deliver the victory which slipped off the party by the cross carpeting of the mandate holder. We know there is a difference in ideologies and APGA will definitely stamp its authority in governance to demonstrate that commitment,” he said. In his speech, Nwoga stated that his decision to run for the office was to correct the anomalies in the state, adding that time had come for the emancipation of the good and embittered people of Imo. “I will restore the dignity of Imolites by the grace of God,” he said According to him: “If given the opportunity to serve, I will with all sincerity of purpose deliver service and people oriented leadership to solving the myriad of problems facing Imolites including transportation, poor infrastructure, insecurity, unemployment and lack of wealth creation opportunities and many others. “APGA will take over power from the ruling APC governor, Owelle Rochas Okorocha and we will make APGA a formidable political party in the state, Southeast geopolitical zone and Nigeria at large. We will make Imo a premier destination of investments in Africa by creating an enabling environment and showing sincerity of purpose and clarity of focus.” The aspirant, who hails from Mbaise stated that the surest way for the party to win was for all members to be united and speak with one voice, adding that failure of the party to take over Imo governance in 2019 would show that the party has not done well. He listed stable energy supply, reducing the high unemployment in the state, improved investment, improved economic and judicious management of state resources among others as his priority, if elected into office. In a speech, Edo State chapter chairman of the party, Mr Emmanuel Ani, assured the party faithful that the victory of the party in the November 18, 2017, governorship election in Anambra state has propelled the party for more electoral victories and was working very hard to win in other states of the Southeast zone. He further noted that APGA was not afraid of the ruling APC and its hierarchy with all their powers and insignia of office but was relying on the will of the people to win in the election. “We shall mesmerize APC in 2019 in the Southeast. As we did in Anambra, so we shall do in Imo and other states of the Southeast. We are not afraid of any election strategies of APC. I am quite convinced that the situation in the two other parties will swing victory to our side,” he said
He commended Nwoga for his steadfastness, assuring him of the support of the party to enable him win the election.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .