 Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State  The APC, which has overwhelming majority in the house, passed a vote of confidence on the governor and endorsed Lalong’s Deputy, Professor Sonni Tyoden to run along with Lalong in the 2019 governorship poll.Their endorsement followed a motion moved by representative of Jos North constituency, Ibrahim Baba Hassan. Hassan said the endorsement became necessary because of Lalong’s leadership style, saying he had included all ethnic nationalities in the state in his cabinet.He also commended the governor for the way projects were being executed by his administration, which have direct bearings on the people especially the rural dwellers.House Majority Leader, Henry Yunkwap, who supported the motion, said it was timely, as Lalong has demonstrated the spirit of oneness in the state unlike previous administrations. Supporters of the motion during plenary explained their reasons for the endorsement, including touching the lives of their constituents through different interventions and appointments.But before the endorsement, PDP members in the house led by the Minority Leader, Dem Daniel, staged a walk out. Meanwhile, the house earlier screened and confirmed the 20 commissioner nominees sent to it by the governor. The nominees who were screened included nine former commissioners of the administration and 11 new nominees.During the screening, only one of the nominees was asked two questions, while the others were asked to take a bow and leave or merely greet members of the House. Those confirmed are Mohammed Nazif (Jos North); Victor Lapan (QuaanPan); Festus Fuanter (Shendam); Kuden Kamshak Dey (Pankshin); Mrs. Tamwakat Weli (Kanke); Jaafaru Wuyep (Lantang North); Hitler DAdi (Langtang South); and Dayyabu Yusuf Garga (Kanam). Others are Ezekiel Daju (Bassa); Abdullahi Garba Abbas (Wase); Dan Manjang (Riyom); Rejina Soemlat (Pankshin); Elizabeth Wapmuk (Quaan Pan); Usman Bamaiyi (Mangu); Hosea Finangwai (Kanam); and Sylvester Wallanko (Bokkos). Also screened and confirmed are Bulus Bot (Barkin Ladi); Anna Talatu Izam (Jos North); Pam Bot Mang (Jos South); and Jude Dakur Eli (Mangu).Three nominees were earlier sent to the house and were promptly screened and confirmed bringing the total number of confirmed commissioner nominees to 23.They will be sworn-in today and allotted portfolios in Government House, Little Rayfield, Jos, at a ceremony to be performed by Lalong, who dissolved his cabinet three weeks ago. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .