 Nigeria Police  All other federal police bodies like the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Customs and Immigration Services, National Security and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC) and others should report to the Minister of Justice (not the Attorney General). This calls for the separation of the offices of the Attorney General and that of the Minister of Justice. We can borrow from the United States of America, where we also copied our Constitution. The criminal justice system in that country is well defined in terms of powers, responsibilities and funding. Laws are defined in terms of Federal, State, County (like our Local Government Areas) and other specialist Police Departments. At the federal level they have the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI), which has nationwide jurisdiction for enforce of federal laws. They are limited by US Code to investigating only matters that are explicitly within the power of the federal government. There are other federal law enforcement agencies, which include the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) the United States Marshals Service and the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP). After the terror attack of 9/11 in New York, the government created the Department of Homeland Security, as a counter terrorism agency, with many other law enforcement agencies reporting to it. In the case of a crime or disaster, many agencies can respond, but when the situation is clear, the agencies are flexible enough to allow the responsible agency to take command. According to the US Constitution, the federal government is not authorized to execute general police powers. The agencies have their jurisdiction and specific duties to carry out.State Police on the other hand started as an agency to enforce State laws which were mainly traffic laws. They were later given investigative powers. They were referred to as State Police or Highway Patrol Police and report to the State Department of Public Safety. Their duties are very clear and these include; arrest and detention of suspects, crime scene protection, search and seizure, emergency assistance to the public, interrogation and interviews and the presentation of testimony in court. It can be seen from these duties that the state police is restricted to police duties duties only. So, in Nigeria, I will  suggest that they report to the State Commissioner in the Ministry of Public Safety. This will remove them from political manipulation.
 
Other responsibilities of the State Police will include maintaining law and order across the state jurisdiction. These will include patrolling roadways, enforcing state laws, maintaining peace and assisting local government law enforcement when necessary.  For instance, if someone commits murder in one State, the State Police will investigate and prosecute the suspect. But if he flees into a neighboring state, it becomes an interstate crime, where the FBI will be invited to take charge.  Establishing State Police must in effect give way to the concurrent  establishment of County or Local Government Area Police (Sheriffs), who will be responsible for carrying out Local Government Ordinances. That will be the limit of their jurisdiction. They will engage in the enforcement of traffic laws and control, parking and environmental laws. They maintain the county jail for drunk, traffic violators and domestic violence suspects awaiting to be charged to court. In large municipalities they have City police like the New York City Police (NYPD) or Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD). Policing in the United States has been so segmented that a unitary system, as practiced in Nigeria will be totally dysfunctional. Right now all university campuses have Campus Police. Airports have their Airport Police, so does the Railroad Service with their Railroad Police. Nigeria used to have the Railway Police in Nigeria. In most American cities, high-brow housing estate, have  their fully equipped Police units patrolling he estate. All these are full fledged Police units carrying out their duties within their jurisdiction. The unique aspect of all these Police units is that, in cases of emergency or crime scene situation, the Police, in one form or the other will respond immediately. They call for back-up from the appropriate Police unit, be they the Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) team or FBI as the case may be. The watch word here is jurisdiction. The legal instruments that created them, will clearly define each agency’s responsibilities and jurisdiction. Under a system like this, we will not be seeing a federal police officer controlling traffic at a junction in Maryland or Yaba in Lagos. That is the job of the LGA Sheriff. It is also colonial for men of the Mobile Police Force to be attached to politicians and high net-worth individuals, where they have to protect such “big men from hostile Nigerians.” They create confusion and fear among the populace in traffic and there are reported incidents of fatalities resulting from their reckless driving habits.Body guarding in other climes is usually discreet and carried out by private security companies; and many of such companies abound in Nigeria.
 
The responsibility of the Mobile Police Unit is crowd control in situations of riots; not escorting or protecting politicians or high net-worth individuals. State governors are scared stiff if their Mopols escort details are withdrawn by the Inspector General of Police. They feel as if they have been stripped of their coercive force. Constitutionally, the protective details of a governor should come from the SSS and not the Police. This is the same reason some governors, especially in the opposition want their State Police so they can control them the way they want, which also boils down to abuse. The National Assembly will be making a very big mistake if they just go ahead and establish State Police without taking a holistic view of the security architecture and spelling out each agencies’ responsibilities. They should make the intelligence agencies independent, to checkmate abuses from the executive arm of government. There should be a professional police service that can interpret criminal laws and enforce them, not minding whose ox is gored.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .