 Minister of Finance, Mrs Kemi Adeosun. PHOTO: CNBC Africa  She stated that the country was now resilient after exiting recession and has the potential to achieve a seven per cent economic growth in the next two to three years. The Minister gave this assurance at the fourth Ogun State Investors Forum attended by the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo; Ogun State Governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun; former President of Mexico, Mr. Felipe Calderone and eminent persons and captains of industries. Adeosun disclosed that the current Administration had succeeded in building macroeconomic resilience for the country, particularly revising the funding mix, rebuilding fiscal buffers, enhancing foreign exchange reserves and focusing on import substitution strategies. She said, “President Muhammadu Buhari has laid the foundation for the repositioning of the economy with a series of reforms which are being sequenced to ensure maximum impact and benefits to Nigeria and the citizens. “These include massive investments in infrastructure and social welfare across the country, improved revenue mobilisation, rebuilding of foreign reserves and stabilization of exchange rate.” The Nigerian economy had returned to growth in the second quarter of 2017 after five consecutive quarters of negative growth. The country exited recession with a growth of 0.72 per cent, which was further consolidated with growths of 1.40 per cent and 1.92 per cent in the third and fourth quarters of last year, respectively. The Minister explained that the quick reversal of the recession meant “less damage” was done to the economy and provided an opportunity for faster positive growth. As revenue and growth return, Adeosun said the Government would increase the fiscal space for infrastructure spending. According to her, revenue mobilisation is potentially the master key to unlocking Nigeria’s huge growth potentials and funding the infrastructure programmes. “The Federal Government will continue to create more fiscal space for reforms to enhance productivity and opportunity in the non-oil sector. “Greater focus will also be placed on cost efficiency, blocking revenue leakages and continued support to the States,” she added. Recalling the actions taken by the Administration on assumption of office in May 2015, the Minister said it had two options of “balancing our books by cutting down on expenses and also investing massively in infrastructure and the economy”. “If we had gone for the first option of cutting down on our costs, it means we would have laid off workers. But we chose to stimulate the economy with massive investments in roads, power, rails and other infrastructure as part of deliberate efforts to grow the economy. “We have invested over N2.5 trillion in infrastructure, especially on capital projects, between 2015 and 2017. If you move round the country, you will see ongoing works in roads, power, bridges, rails and other projects. These are important building blocks for the Nigerian economy. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .