 Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode  Speaking, yesterday, at the commissioning of Modele and Mathew Streets built by Honourable Femi Gbajabiamila, Ambode noted that one of the criteria to assess the level of development in a society is the quantity and quality of social and public infrastructure in place to make life comfortable for the people. He said it is the reason infrastructural development and renewal has been accorded prime attention by his administration. “Apart from transforming major road networks and other public infrastructure, inner roads in the 20 Local Government Councils and 37 Council Development Areas are being upgraded. As we gather here, work is on-going in constructing and rehabilitating 181 Local Government roads across the State. This is coming on the heels of the successful completion of the first phase comprising 114 roads 2016 and 2017. The governor noted that his efforts in urban renewal have not gone unnoticed as corporate organisations and other stakeholders in the Lagos project have keyed into his vision by supporting the state government in various ways including adoption of public facilities for maintenance purposes. “I use this opportunity to urge other public spirited individuals and corporate organisations to emulate Honourable Femi Gbajabiamila by adopting public infrastructure for maintenance or rehabilitation. Also, I call on residents in this neighbourhood to make effective use of all public infrastructures and protect them from vandalism or destruction of any kind. “On our part as a government, we shall continue to ensure good governance and especially community participation and inclusion in all our local governments.” Ambode disclosed that he is committed to returning nightlife to Surulere as part of efforts aimed at boosting economic activities within the area. He however said that would come to fruition easily if the federal government hands over the National Theatre and National Stadium. According to the governor, injecting life and social activities returning back to the two national icon would naturally aid the return of night life to Surulere.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .