Okey Sokey, IBK, Tim Godfrey, SMJ and Blessing After over a decade’s experience as a song producer, director, vocal coach and a songwriter with unpredictable live performances, Tim Godfrey has announced the launch of his record label ROX Nation. ROX is an acronym for Republic of Xtreme, and the label already has on its roster four talented artists; Okey Sokay, IBK, Blessyn, and SMJ who is also a producer. The new label which has a dream of the artist for years now is not only going to focus on just gospel music but also other types of music without vulgarity. Rox nation is not just a label but an entertainment and life style company that is going to be focused on all things entertainment. “ROX Nation is not your typical music record label as we go beyond producing music and promoting artists; there is also an arm involved in movie production, stage shows, and general entertainment business” said Tim Godfrey at the unveil which held at the new ROX Nation Headquarters in Gbagada, Lagos. A facility that also hosts a live and audio recording studio fitted with video camera for live footage. ROX Nation also engages in content creation including jingles and TVCs for agencies, production engagement for recording artists and studio rental. Tim Godfrey is also currently running a music reality show tagged; Sound Check, a platform he says will help to train young people with raw musical talents and give them a platform to showcase their gifts to the world. Said the idea of behind the label and the various projects is to give younger people an opportunity to find expression with their gifts. The gospel artist who came from poor background and hustled on the streets of Lagos claims his inspiration for this project comes from the struggles and challenges he has had to face alone to become who he is today. “What really inspired this idea is the fact that nobody gave this opportunity to me and I learnt the hard way from day one struggling in the streets of Lagos, doing what most young people go through today. So I wished there were people who saw me and gave me an opportunity, I probably would have gone farther than this. So I felt there are talented people going through the same and nobody sees them, so hence I decided to start label. And also considering we do not really have a strong gospel label in Nigeria, this would be a first of its kind” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .