Nosa As part of its commitment and contributing to nation building, The Nu Nation Project (TNNP), an initiative geared towards using different tool to bring about a positive impact in the brand index of the nation, will today host gospel ministers, Nathaniel Bassey and Nosa on it radio programme, Age2Age. The programme, which employs talk, music and the arts to advocate for better values in Nigeria and currently running on Classic FM 97.3, features motivational and inspirational talk by the presenter and founder of The Nu Nation Project (TNNP), Ken Ebbi, who is also a Fellow of the institute of Brand Management of Nigeria Topics on the programme are focus on building strong values in Nigerians and Nigeria. Hence, fundamental analysis and trending issues are discussed on the programme in the bid to proffering solutions. According to Ebbi, music has always been a powerful tool for promoting so many things. It is widely used in entertainment, advocacy, activism, advertising, political and social emancipation. He said, “Fela Anikulapo Kuti of the Afrobeat fame used his music as a tool of conveying the message of emancipation from oppression, fight against racism and social vices. Sunny Okosun played a prominent role in the fight against apartheid with his music, and Christie Essien Igbokwe promoted strong family values. Music is indeed a strong tool in addressing humanitarian ills; it is a tool needed today in Nigeria.” “In Nigeria today, it is no longer news that our country is bedeviled with all kinds of problems like corruption, nepotism, tribalism, and intolerance among other issues and they don’t seem to be abating. It appears to be a long journey to the promise land; people are loosing hope in this contraption, suicide rate is on the rise,” he added. Ebbi noted that Nigeria is a great nation, but may not seem to look so at the moment due to the myriad of challenges it is facing. However, it is a nation so blessed by a God in the full ramification and despite the flaws inherent, it is certain that with commensurate effort from its citizenry the country will soar. He stated that with over 15million views on Youtube, Nathaniel Bassey is one of the leading sources of inspiration in Nigeria today. His music has motivated and encouraged millions both old and young all around the world to keep hope alive. According to the show host, Bassey’s success story alone mirrors the possibility of success even in very trying times, while Nosa as the rising king of inspirational music, whose I Go Always Pray For You, preaches tolerance and forgiveness Speaking further on the show, Ebbi who is making some inspirational songs believes that the interview, which will be broadcast on social media platforms, is another opportunity to share with the teaming youth the values that took the artistes to the top. “Receding hope is a problem for any individual or nation; we need to keep hope alive in other to fight for our country and ourselves. This is where inspirational and gospel music is key, in fact, at least an hour dosage every 24 hours can be very healing for the soul and it is highly recommended in these trouble times,” he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .