 Delta State Information Commissioner, Patrick Ukah.  The Commissioner for Information, Mr. Patrick Ukah who disclosed in Asaba explained that the approval is to alleviate the housing challenges facing civil servants in the state, especially Asaba, the state capital, with a view to making them more comfortable to meet the demands of their offices. The commissioner said that the government approved the continuation of the construction of Ibusa/Achalla/Asaba Road (Phase 1: 4.125 km) in Oshimili North local council, in addition to the construction of Ogulagha/Youbebe/Biniebiama Road (1,500 metres) in Burutu local council and the rehabilitation of Orogun-Emevor Road and Erhieta Road  (4.6 kilometres). Also approved is the completion of the New General Hospital Road with a spur to Joy Ariguzor Street, off Okpanam Road, in the state capital territory, the construction of Arhagba—Orogun Road (11.294 kilometres) in Ughelli North local council and the construction of Upper Ojekpolor Street, (1,150 metres) in Ika North East local council. Meanwhile, the federal government has committed to delivering high quality roads nationwide. The government also appealed to motorists and other road users to be patient with contractors handling ongoing federal road construction projects in the country. Director, Federal Highways South-South in Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing, Charles Okomah, an engineer, disclosed this while addressing journalists in Benin City after a two days tour of federal government projects.He said the dualization of the Benin-Auchi section of the Benin-Lokoja Highway, will meet the project completion date, scheduled later in the year. Okomah urged motorists and other road users on the need to be patient with the pace of work which is rather slow adding that construction works on the road is near completion.He argued that the slow pace of work was due to inclement weather condition, but insisted that generally adverse weather condition would be no excuse for contractor’s non-performance. Okomah, who noted that inclement situation has improved, hence work also has improved said, “We have a lot challenges usually. We have inclement weather conditions for a period of almost four months in the execution of road construction projects.He said the ministry will not hesitate to sanction contractors found wanting in terms of default on contract,  particularly on the ground that such default is not as a result of non-payment on job description. Controller, Federal Ministry of works, Edo State, Oke Owhe, an engineer, during the tour of projects in the state said the federal government awarded the first phase of the dualization of the Lokoja-Benin Road, section four (Ehor-Benin) to Reynolds Construction  Company (RCC) on the December 3, 2012 ,while work commenced on the December 24, 2012 and the expected project completion date is now December 23, 2018. The project tour, which was monitored by members of the Nigeria Society of Engineers (NSE) commenced from Edo South Senatorial District through Edo Central and Edo North Senatorial Districts of the state with verifiable projects receiving government attention. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .