 Officials of Chinese Construction Company (CCECC) handling Rivers, Abia road project, Supervisor, Mr. Ebota Kpan and some staffs of Federal Ministry of Works and Housing after site inspection in Port Harcourt.  The contract was awarded to a Chinese firm, China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC)  plans to engage 150 local workers while on completion, the road project comprising construction and rehabilitation will have a life span of 50 years. The project supervisor, Ebota Kpan, engineer said, the contractor is complying with the terms contract agreement issued by the office of the Minister of Power, Work and Housing, Babatunde Fashola to ensure the quality job. He further disclosed that 60 Nigerians are currently working at the project site, adding that more 160 persons would be employed as the work progresses. The project supervisor said: “ This is a dual carriage road the distance is from Eleme junction to Aba that is the exact length of the project.  We have changed the design of the road and the present design has four lanes on both sides bring the total lanes on completion to eight. What we are doing here will also be replicated at Aba.” Also, the Director High Way South South (DHSS) Project Director Mr. C.O Okonma lauded President Muhammad Buhari for the approving the project, which according to him, would alleviate the sufferings of the masses and add positive value to the economy. The project contractor, George Gao said; “We are not lacking anything in terms of funds and from now on we have started fully. We have 41 kilometers for this Aba road from Eleme junction to Imo River Bridge the entire length of the road we are working on is 41 kilometers. We have two-registered engineer and we have 15 technicians like mechanics, carpenters, surveyor and others. The duration of this project is 30 months’’. The spokesman of Oyigbo Community, Mr. Alex Ibe, thanked the federal government for the project, stating that it would ensure free movement and ease traffic congestions. On his part, the River State Chairman, Nigerian Society of Engineers, Dr. Howells Hart said, the project was a welcome development. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .