The Nigeria Olympic Committee (NOC) and the factions of the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) are waiting with baited breadth for the world basketball governing body’s verdict on the crisis rocking the administration of the game in the country. Two factions, one led by immediate past president of the federation, Tijjani Umar and another led by Musa Kida are laying claims to the leadership of the federation following separate elections held last year. The NOC said yesterday that it was awaiting the final verdict of the FIBA investigation team on the leadership crisis to finally lay to rest the issues dodging the body. NOC Secretary General, Tunde Popoola told The Guardian that the world body’s decision would give Nigerian basketball a sense of direction, adding that NOC was ready to back the development of basketball in Nigeria. Popoola also debunked claims that federations  preparing for next month’s Commonwealth Games were facing financial challenges, saying that funds had been released to cover the federation’s programmes up till March. “The NOC is still awaiting FIBA to give it verdict on March 10 on the NBBF leadership crises. The organisation wants the game of basketball to excel this year. On the news making the rounds that some federations preparing for the Commonwealth Games are facing financial challenges in their camp, I can only say that some people are trying to foment trouble where there is none. “The federations have been paid till March 2 and arrangements are in place to provide more welfare packages for the athletes. Right now, the NOC is meeting with all the federations to decide on how their teams would travel. Some federations want to camp outside the country for some days before departing for Australia. “From Wednesday after all the meetings, the travelling details of teams would be announced,” he said. The 2018 Commonwealth Games will hold from April 4 to 15 in Gold Coast, Australia.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .