 A part of Bayelsa. PHOTO: timeslive.co.za  Also arrested by the police were three suspects involved in the armed attack on a Corpers’ Lodge in Angalabiri community of Sagbama Local Government Area, in which a National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) member’s hand was cut off. The corps member, identified as Luntis Julius from Taraba State, was macheted with cutlass on his left hand. Also stolen from the Corpers’ Lodge were a laptop and two mobile phones. The boy, an SS2 student of the Community Secondary School, Akenfa-Epie, was apprehended while in school uniform by some indigenes, led by the local Vigilance Committee. Sources told The Guardian that the student was accosted and searched by the vigilance group after he was fingered by some indigenes in the attack. However, some other sources claimed the boy was arrested in the classroom after a tip-off by his mates, though the school management dismissed the claim as untrue, insisting that the suspect was not their student. A member of the school management, who pleaded anonymity, told our correspondent “the boy was not arrested in the classroom as alleged. And the uniform he was putting on is common among students in the state.” The teenager has been handed over to the Akenfa Divisional Police Station for onward transfer to the state police headquarters. Meanwhile, the police have confirmed the arrest of three suspects involved in the Sunday armed robbery attack on the Corpers’ Lodge. They are Mosan Moses Youdougha, 22; and Godswill Vincent, 21. The third suspect nabbed by the community was yet to be handed over to the police yesterday. Confirming the development, the Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Astimin Butswat, confirmed the arrests and said investigations is ongoing to arrest the fourth suspect involved in the attack. The corps member, whose left hand was cut off by armed robbers, has undergone surgery. It was gathered that the victim, Luntsi Julius, went under the knife to fix the severed hand at the Niger Delta University Teaching Hospital (NDUTH), Okolobri. Management of the NYSC in Bayelsa said the victim was responding to treatment. The State Coordinator, NYSC, Mrs. Loto Bolade Omolayo, gave the assurance when she visited the victim at the hospital. According to her, the corps member was severely injured but to the hand was not totally detached from his body.
She expressed joy that after the operation on the hand, he was responding to treatment. “I visited the corps member in the hospital for a first hand assessment of his condition and I am happy to state that he is responding to treatment.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .