 Zara Udofia-Ejoh (left); Joke Silva; producer/director, Ifeoma Fafunwa and Rita Edward at Hear Word! Naija Woman Talk True press conference last week… in Lagos  Told by some of Nigeria’s most talented actresses, the performance piece combines artistry, social commentary and true-life stories of inequality and transformation. The stories are based on real issues affecting the lives of girls and women across Nigeria while examining what factors limit their potential for independence, leadership and meaningful contribution to development. The show not only gives a voice to women, it provides the world with insight into their unique and universal challenges. Heard Word! tackles topics such as circumcision and barrenness as well as more universal challenges like child molestation, gender-based violence and women trafficking. The show bravely serves up the cultural and societal norms that oppress and limit African women. By so doing, it empowers women to break the culture of silence, and urge unity so as to challenge the status quo, move beyond barriers and create solutions.  As a way of empowering womenfolk, Fafunwa also said her group of formidable women would offer support to any woman who desires to go into politics, especially if it finds any woman who is strong, fearless, qualified and has the necessary credentials to contest for the desired post. She also noted that IOpenEye Productions has received lots of proposals for a possible TV series for Heard Word! and was considering granting permission because it wants the actions of the play to be viewed by as many people as possible with the hope to eradicate the obnoxious practices in Africa and achieve a tolerable and fair society.
 
A cast member of Heard Word!, Ibru, also spoke on the importance of the performance piece, when she noted, “The play talks about what we, as women, face in our society. We face a lot of difficulties, ranging from harassments, torture, inhumane treatments and the likes. Therefore, the play teaches women to not succumb to the pain of these unjust treatment but to rise and transform themselves to become great individuals in the society.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .