Walter Onnoghen But for timely interventions by the judiciary, Nigeria may never have waded through its turbulent moments. Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) Walter Onnoghen made this assertion at a training session for justices of the Supreme Court, Court of Appeal, and judges of the federal high courts yesterday. The statement could be seen as a move by the judiciary to reassure Nigerians of its readiness to arbitrate creditably, as the country counts down to next year’s general elections. Onnoghen also highlighted the role of the institution in boosting the economy. “I make bold to say, without any fear of contradiction, that the Nigerian judiciary is a key partner in ensuring stability in the oil and gas sector by interpretation of relevant laws in the industry,” he said. He therefore reminded the participants: “Indeed, the adjudicatory duty of a judge can only be performed optimally when he remains up to date with the emerging developments and trends in jurisprudence pertaining to the oil and gas sector. “You must be seen to be knowledgeable in the law and be in charge of your courts, to ensure speedy resolution of disputes, which in turn serves to assure investors and other major players in the oil and gas industry that their investments are safe.” The event, themed, ‘The Role of the Judiciary in the Effective Development of Nigerian Content in the Oil and Gas Industry’, was organised by the National Judicial Institute (NJI) in collaboration with the Juris Law Office and the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB). Onnoghen, who chaired the occasion, said it has always been the responsibility of judicial officers to sustain public confidence in the legal sector, urging them to be adequately informed about laws to ensure the speedy resolution of disputes. He noted that the event was organised to help justices and judges attain mastery in dealings within the oil and gas sector, and expressed confidence that the forum would be “extremely beneficial” to the performance of their duties. The CJN added: “The recent passage of the Petroleum Industry (Governance) Bill is an indication that the government is steering the oil and gas sector in the right direction.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .