 Farmers at work.  The Fund, jointly owned by the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) and UFF Agri Investment, is investing in a farm, which comprises a broad acreage of Maize and Soya beans, integrated into a system of feed mills and storage silos.The additional capital will be deployed towards expanding the farm’s existing infrastructure, increasing installed capacity and enhancing the overall quality and quantity of output. With this investment, the Fund will acquire and develop a 3,500 hectarages of land, of which 2,300 hectres are arable, while the capital injection will be used to construct and install state-of- the-art irrigation infrastructure, water reservoirs, grain storage and processing facilities. Also, the farming operations will be expanded to serve as input sources to the processing plant, with modernising the farm’s operations and backward integration expected to improve significantly the crop yield, while a two-season (wet and dry season) farming will be achieved going forward. The expanded infrastructure is projected to increase the mills output tonnage by 60 per cent, while the combination of a centre-pivot irrigation system and surface drip lines will be deployed to increase water application across the farm. NSIA and UFF’s interest in the agriculture sector in Nigeria is underpinned by a shared vision of the significant socio-economic opportunities that exist.The investment is expected to promote income-generating opportunities for smallholder famers under an out-grower scheme and related services.Overall the investment is expected to stimulate economic activities that will lead to the creation of jobs and improvements in quality of life. The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer NSIA, Uche Orji, said: “Agriculture is Nigeria’s largest source of employment and remains a key focus area for the NSIA, given its potential to contribute towards stimulating the economy. “The UFF-NAIC Agriculture Fund is seeking to enhance the sector by attracting capital and modern technology to critical aspects of the value chain, which is expected to stimulate production and the gamut of related economic activities. “This modest investment therefore represents a prudently structured entry for the Fund into the domestic agriculture sector, which we believe will prove lucrative and transformational for stakeholders and the sector at large”. UFF Joint Managing Director, Erwin Bouland, said: “The investment in the farm in Nasarawa provides the first co-investment opportunity in Nigeria. The asset is complementary to existing portfolio holdings in that it offers geographic, climatic and farming type diversification. “The lease model, coupled with the water security provided by this investment, fits with our objectives of reduced risk and consistent income provision for our institutional client base. UFF leverage highly productive assets by introducing investment in technology that creates exciting long-term opportunities for the Fund.” UFF Agri Investment (“UFF”) is the leading specialist in agri-investment in Africa. It combines agri-Investment and African sustainability, providing investors with a compelling risk/return profile. Its experts in the field are part of an extensive network that yield trust and confidence for investors, giving them access to attractive investment opportunities. UFF provides African agri-Investment solutions and is a global market leader specialising in investments in the agri sector in Africa, with a constantly expanding, diverse portfolio of investment solutions that are adaptable to your requirements. Based in South Africa, Mauritius and the Netherlands, UFF has a solid track record and a tried and tested investment method. Old Mutual Investment Group is the largest manager of real assets in Africa. During May 2016, the Group reaffirmed its commitment to African investment by increasing its overall effective equity stake in African agriculture investment group, UFF African Agri Investments, to 49%.With its dedicated focus on investments in the Agri sector in Africa, UFF Agri Investments has specialist expertise and has long been a fund advisor to Old Mutual Investment Group through its Futuregrowth Agri and Old Mutual Agri Funds. The UFF Agri Investment (“UFF”) is the leading specialist in agri-investment in Africa. It combines agri-Investment and African sustainability, providing investors with a compelling risk/return profile. Its experts in the field are part of an extensive network that yield trust and confidence for investors, giving them access to attractive investment opportunities. It provides African agri-Investment solutions and is a global market leader specialising in investments in the agri sector in Africa, with a constantly expanding, diverse portfolio of investment solutions that are adaptable to your requirements. Based in South Africa, Mauritius and the Netherlands, UFF has a solid track record and a tried and tested investment method. On the other hand, Old Mutual Investment Group (“OMIG”) is the largest manager of real assets in Africa. During May 2016, the Group reaffirmed its commitment to African investment by increasing its overall effective equity stake in African agriculture investment group, UFF African Agri Investments, to 49%.With its dedicated focus on investments in the Agri sector in Africa, UFF Agri Investments has specialist expertise and has long been a fund advisor to Old Mutual Investment Group through its Futuregrowth Agri and Old Mutual Agri Funds. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .