Nwankwo addressing the people during one of the town hall meetings and empowerment programme When the people of Njikoka/Dunukofia/Anaocha Federal Constituency prodded and collectively persuaded Chief Ferdinand Dozie Nwankwo to represent them in the House of Representatives, assuring him of their overwhelming support, irrespective of the political party platform, the Port Harcourt-based businessman politely declined until when he felt the time was ripe for him. On January 12, 2016, he was sworn as a member of the National Assembly and has since been working tirelessly for his constituents, according to Speaker of the House, Yakubu Dogara. Nwankwo was at home recently to liaise, relate and hold town hall meetings with his constituents at Enugwu Ukwu, Neni and Ukpo in Njikoka, Dunukofia and Anaocha Councils, respectively, which make up the constituency. The meetings preceded the kick-off of the 13th edition of his annual free medical outreach for indigenes of the constituency and beyond, which started in 2009, long before he joined politics. Dogara was ably represented at this year’s edition, with 10 other members of the House in attendance. At the meeting, Nwankwo reeled out his modest achievements, efforts in sponsorship of bills and motions, job opportunities and school admissions he facilitated for his constituents, especially the youth, which were captured in a documentary and slides, packaged in both English and Igbo languages for their deeper perception and understanding. The participants were drawn from Enugwu Ukwu, Nawfia, Abagana, Enugwu Agidi, Nimo, Ifite Dunu, Ukwulu, Nawgu, Umunnachi, Umudioka, Ukpo and Abba, Aguluizigbo, Agulu, Nri, Neni, Obeledu, Akwaeze, Adazi Enu, Adazi Ani and Adazi Nnukwu, amongst other nearby and interested communities and indigenes. Nwankwo, who is the Onyendozi Nwachinemelu of Enugwu Ukwu, said the meetings were organised to tell his people how far he has gone in pursuit of their welfare in the last two years at the National Assembly and commended them for the confidence reposed in him, their love and support. He said his Ferdinand Dozie Nwankwo Foundation was established as a vehicle to give back to society, pledging to continue to actively represent them, as well as use his salary, allowances and other emoluments to get things done for them, especially the free medical outreach, which has so far touched over half million lives since 2009. This is in addition to the women/youth empowerment and scholarship scheme, which has benefited over 200 indigent students, some of who have graduated and helping themselves and families; provision of educational aides and materials to students and pupils within the constituency, facilitation of about 100 admissions into higher institutions; provision of support to over 5,000 widows; and offering monthly stipends to over 400 helpless old indigenes in the area. Nwankwo has also empowered 1,000 constituents with cars, tricycles, motorcycles, sewing machines, hair dryers, wheel chairs, grinding/blending machines and generating sets, in addition to organising skill acquisition and takeoff financial support to over 1,000 others, as well as attract employment opportunities to over 50 constituents. The lawmaker said he was currently building a state-of-the-art Information Communication Technology (ICT) Centre in Enugwu Ukwu for the training, education and benefit of people of the constituency. His free medical outreach, involving eye and dental treatment/surgeries, tooth refill, clef palate surgeries and general treatment, the flag off of which was performed by the Anambra State Governor Willie Obiano, represented by his Deputy, Dr. Nkem Okeke, attracted over 50,000 beneficiaries and lasted nearly two weeks. The people, including key stakeholders, traditional rulers, clerics and professionals commended Nwankwo for his achievements and active representation. Tim Ifedioranma, a member of the state Assembly described Nwankwo as “gift from God to this constituency. He has achieved so much in such a short time and must go back to achieve more. He has given us his scorecard; no one has ever done so in the past. He is a very transparent lawmaker. We support him fully for re-election.” Chinedu Nkwonta, the state Publicity Secretary of APGA, expressed joy that Nwankwo has been able to make Anambra proud by his outstanding performance, adding: “He has transformed his constituency and defined democracy to mean doing exactly what he says. “I advice all within our party seeking appointive or elective offices to learn from him.” The traditional ruler of Abagana, Igwe Mbamalu Okeke, described Nwankwo as a worthy representative of the people, who should be returned for a second time. Nwankwo later told journalists that the town hall meetings had availed him another opportunity to assess his efforts in the mind of his constituents and their perception of his input. “I feel fulfilled. It made me believe I am on the right track in the pursuit of their welfare, needs and challenges. I will, therefore continue, as these are what they sent me to do,” he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .