It was a night honour for the young creatives, particularly the ladies as the Pitcher Awards held in commemoration of the 2018 Creativity Week. The awards will celebrate and honour outstanding works in Film, Print, Design, Media, PR, Digital, Branded Content, and Outdoor from West and Central Africa as well as the people behind them. The Creativity Week is a precursor to Cannes Lions Festival 2018 where winners will officially represent the country, the West and Central Africa at the Festival. Also, special awards category will include Agency of the Year, Brand of the Year, Young Pitcher Award and Best Original Work in French. According to the organisers, CHINI Productions, the event will give international visibility to the people, agencies and brands behind the winning works. “We have concluded arrangements with Lürzer’s Archive to publish a compilation of the winning works in a volume that will be distributed worldwide,” said Nnamdi Ndu, Cannes Lions Representative in Nigeria and Managing Director CHINI Africa of the company. He adds: “The Pitcher Awards is the long-awaited category to complement all the other programmes of the Creativity Week such as the Young Lions Competitions, Future Creative Leaders Academy, the Miami Ad School Scholarship Competition, the Young Professionals Academies, the Creativity Week Expo and Seminars. The award gives international visibility to the people, agencies and brands behind the winning works. “The winning works will be celebrated online on the Lürzer’s Archive website. At Cannes Lions, we will present a special Pitcher Awards publication featuring a compilation of all the winning works to the over 16,000 delegates from around the world that attend Cannes Lions annually. What better way to take Africa to the world?” Biggest winners of the night were the duo of Ogechi Mbatu and Bennett Akpomedaye from Brand Eye Media, who won the Young Pitchers Award. Other winners at the event are Muyiwa Babarinde and Toyosi Yusuff, PR practitioners from Red Media, who clinched the Young Lions PR Competition award. The Young Lions Digital Competition award went to the duo of Isioma Okafor and Ahmed Olalekan, both from Brand Eye Media, while Ayodele Michael Dada and Kehinde Adewunmi from Insight Publicis walked away with Young Lions Film Competition award. John E. Aiterebhe won the Adebola Babatunde Scholarship (portfolio programme), just as Olorundare Samuel clinched the First Degree Scholarship. Both will be heading to the Miami Ad School in the United States of America. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .