 Senator Oluremi Tinubu and other guests at the event  According to him, it would take five decade for other religious sects to meet up musically with the ministries, because of the intensive investment and facilities on ground to promote gospel music. Olukoya maintained that doing gospel music is not about singing vulgar songs or dressing or looking weird to showcase their music, rather it is to sing wholesome songs for God, who originated and a loves good music.He urged other religious organisations that invest intensively on gospel music education to redefine music that would provide opportunities to boost the economy and surpass the secular genre. “MFM believes in empowering youth by taking them out of the street and assisting them to utilize their energies efficiently without embracing crime or violence. Since Music and sports are veritable tools for youths to channel their energies in order to contribute their quota to nation –building all over the world,” he said. The clergyman disclosed that a lot of young people, who are music inclined from different background, status and ages have been empowered through the church musical programmes, and they have been groomed to exhibit their talents and skills over the years by the church. Participants at the event include Paul Winners, Daniel Dominic, Emeka Okolie, Bunmi Adeyeye, Tinuola Naomi Paul, Richard Ayotunde, Uche Okereke, Osaze Adekola, Vera Ohonbamu, Somtochukwu, Aderayo Oyegbade, Tope Adepoju, and Victor Praise among others. There were spectacular group performances from MFM Youth Choir, The Guitar Choir, Asaph Choir, The Charioteers, Goshen Voices, Heavenly Strings Orchestra, Heavenly Voices Acapella, Zion Dwellers and Mezzo Stream Acapella. Others are Divine Symphony Orchestra, Beulah Quartet, Mountain Top Conservatory Choir and Orchestra, Mountain Top Chorale, Soul Touch Acapella Singers, Holy Flames Dancers amongst others dishing out exclusive rhythms in exclusive style. Chairperson of Mega Concert and Director Conservatory of Music, Pastor Mrs. Oyinkansola Akinselure, told The Guardian that the mega music concert organised by Mountain Top Mega is the first in West Africa, adding that they hope to replicate the event in Port Harcourt, Abuja and others cities soon. She explained that the event was an avenue to launch out the participants music to assist them showcase the talents and skills in order to get scholarships, sponsorship or record label for the music youths “We have been able to train the music acts and performance over the years to give youths quality music education and excellent skills on various musical instruments and idioms. Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries is doing its possible to preserve and encourage our young ones in the church and in the environment. We are offering scholarship to young ones who desire to study music at higher levels even up to Ph.D. level at both local and foreign universities and schools of music. We sponsor youths to study music in places both locally and international land among others,” Akinselure stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .