A little bird once said that, with travel, females want safety, convenience and a good time. In honour of International Women’s Month, here is a list of mobile applications that will help women reach their travel expectations. (L-R) Queen Latifah, Regina Hall, Jada Pinkett Smith and Tiffany Haddish in Girls Trip-. Photo credit: Michele K. Short Companion Photo credit: Companion App Companion is an excellent app that helps females stay safe while travelling. It is an on-demand mobile security app where you can invite a friend from your contact list to make sure you reach your destination safely. It has inbuilt safety triggers that detect changes in your movement (such as a phone drop or your bag being snatched). It then sends alerts to your companion turns into an alarm system and even contacts the police. Photo credit: PackPoint App The PackPoint app is every female’s best friend. You can input your travel dates, destination and activities you plan on taking. It also generates a comprehensive list of things you need based on the information given. With this app, you can say goodbye to over-packing. It’s been said that travelling can mess with your menstrual cycle. This is because your menstrual and sleep cycles are closely linked and events such as a jetlag and change in time-zones, can have a big impact on your cycle. So, tracking your period with the Clue app is a great way to stay in the know while on the move. SitOrSquat is an amazing restroom finder app. It scans your location for public restrooms near you. It has a rating functionality where you can rate ‘sit’ for good or ‘squat’ for bad and messy toilets. The app is handy for those moments when you direly need a restroom and do not have the time or patience to find one yourself. Photo credit: Tourlina This women-only app promises a secure network where females can find interesting and entertaining travel companions. It is best suited for solo travellers who wouldn’t mind meeting fellow travellers who are visiting their destination around the same time. These are great applications to have on your phone while travelling and the best part is they are all free on both iPhone and Android devices. Check them out today. Happy travelling!