ARISE Fashion Week (AFW 2018) will return from March 30th to April 2nd at the Lagos Continental Hotel (formerly known as Intercontinental Hotel). Arguably the most exclusive fashion show to hold in Nigeria, It is destined to be an Easter extravaganza like no other. 11 years ago, Africa’s fashion industry became truly global with the birth of ARISE, the synonym for “Africa Rising”. ARISE Fashion Week helped to put Nigeria firmly on the global fashion map, showcasing and promoting African designers on the runways of the world, from London’s famous Royal Albert Hall, to Washington DC’s Kennedy Center, to the legendary triple appearance during New York’s iconic Fashion Week, to Lagos, to Johannesburg, to Cape Town and Paris. Read More: Treat Yourself To An Awesome Time At The Cinema The AFW runway has seen global fashion icons and leading models such as Naomi Campbell, Alek Wek, Liya Kedebe, Oluchi Orlandi, Grace Bol, Georgie Badiel, Millen Magese, showcase the best of Africa. The event has also seen internationally acclaimed designers such as Gavin Rajah, Oswald Boateng, David Tlale, LaQuan Smith, Lanre DaSilva, DEOLA, Jewel By Lisa, Ituen Basi, Odion Mimonet and more fly the African flag. Running from March 31st to April 2nd, this year’s lineup of designers are some of the most impactful in the world: Showcasing on Day 1, March 31
Clan, Vonne Couture, Laurenceairline (Ivory Coast), About That Curvy Life Collective, Andrea Iyamah, Style Temple, Okunoren Twins, Thebe Magugu (South Africa), Aurora James (Canada), Tinie Tempah (UK), Mustafa Hassanali (Tanzania), Orapeleng Modutle (Sough Africa), Ituen Basi, KLûK CGDT (South Africa) and Lanre Da Silva Ajayi.  Read More: Zambia’s War On Sex Dolls Sparks Outrage  Showcasing on Day 3, April 2
Moofa, Dzyn, House of Nwocha, Maxivive, Sunny Rose, Tokyo James, Maxhosa by Laduma (South Africa), Maki Oh, Gozel Green, Rich Mnisi (South Africa), Bridget Awosika, Ere Dappa, Odion Mimonet, Laquan Smith (USA), Lakhanyo Midingi (South Africa), Deola Sagoe and Ozwald Boateng (UK). The AFW runway 2018 event in Lagos will feature 45 designers from 14 countries such as South Africa, Botswana, Tanzania, Uganda, Kenya, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Senegal, France, Morocco, the United Kingdom, the United States, the Caribbean and Nigeria. The best of these will be selected to showcase during NYFW in September this year.
“We are excited to bring world-class fashion back to Lagos in the real sense of it. The bar will definitely be raised once more with strong collaborations, innovation, and creativity,” says Co-Producer Ruth Osime.
The official designers for this year’s fashion showcase will be unveiled this week. For more information on ARISE Fashion Week(AFW) 2018, please follow @arisefashionweek on Instagram. Read More: How To Prevent Cervical Cancer