PHOTO: GETTYIMAGES The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has revealed that the need to boost the nation’s hydrocarbon reserves remained the primary reason the corporation has launched exploration activities across the country, especially in the northern region. Speaking shortly after being conferred with honorary fellowship of the Nigerian Mining & Geosciences Society (NMGS), Baru, who said the corporation was ready to work with the association to reinvigorate efforts towards growing the nation’s hydrocarbon reserves, said the search is targeted at boosting proven reserves. “Our search is primarily targeted at increasing the hydrocarbon reserves of the country and also to harness these resources which may be in other parts of the country. “NNPC pledges to continue to work with you and every willing partner in the search for more hydrocarbon deposits in the country,” he said. Regretting the unfortunate incident, which claimed the lives of some University of Maiduguri staff, who were working on the Chad basin exploration as well as the loss of one of the corporation’s staff working on the Benue Trough exploration, Baru said the corporation planned to drill four wells in areas that it has acquired 1, 961kmsq 3D seismic data out of 3,550kmsq planned in the Chad Basin. The GMD said: “I pledge on behalf of the NNPC that their sacrifice shall not be in vain. There is no better way to honour the efforts of our gallant heroes than to continue the good work they died for, “While waiting for normalcy to return to the Chad Basin, we have stepped up efforts in the Lower Benue trough. So far, we have acquired 20km of 2D data out of the planned 455km 2d seismic data,” he added. He disclosed that NNPC would be going into the deeper Maiduguri sub-basin to acquire more 3D seismic data as soon as normalcy returns to the Chad basin. On the Gongola Basin, Baru said four wells were also being planned for drilling to further test the prospects identified around Kolmani River-1, Nasara-1 and Kuzari-1 in 2018. President of NMGS, Prof. Silas Dada said the society was honoured the GMD for his commitment and service to the growth of the country’s oil and gas industry. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .