 Arsenal’s kit manager Vic Akers (L) and Arsenal’s French manager Arsene Wenger (R) react in their seats as Arsenal trail, during the English Premier League football match between Brighton and Hove Albion and Arsenal at the American Express Community Stadium in Brighton, southern England on March 4, 2018.<br />Brighton won the game 2-1. / AFP PHOTO / Glyn KIRK  The future of Arsenal manager Wenger has been the subject of fierce debate amid reports of players’ meetings and of a weakening in boardroom support for the Frenchman And Arsenal’s eighth loss since the turn of the year and one that leaves them 13 points adrift of fourth place – will do nothing to strengthen the position of the veteran manager, who has reigned largely unchallenged since taking over at north London club Arsenal in 1996. First-half goals from Lewis Dunk and Glenn Murray secured the win that moved south coast club Brighton seven points clear of the bottom three, with Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang’s strike immediately before the break the visitors’ only reply. If ever Wenger needed his side to make a solid, composed start to the game, this was it. Having been outplayed in back to back 3-0 defeats by Manchester City, first in the League Cup final and then, four days later, in the league fixture at the Emirates Stadium, the Gunners badly needed a lift ahead of Thursday’s Europa League meeting with AC Milan. Read More: Wenger ready to “fight” to end Arsenal crisis Instead Arsenal betrayed the defensive frailties that have been a feature of their campaign and allowed Brighton to take control. It took Chris Hughton’s side just seven minutes to open up the Arsenal backline, with Ezequiel Schelotto’s powerful run down the left eventually leading to Pascal Gross’s cross forcing a corner. Gross then delivered the set-piece toward the far post where Shane Duffy rose above Petr Cech’s unconvincing attempt to punch and headed down for defensive partner Dunk to hook home. The goal triggered the first chants of “you’re getting sacked in the morning” directed at Wenger from the home supporters but alarmingly for the manager, prompted little response from his side. Instead, Arsenal were repeatedly pushed back with Cech forced to save well from Gross before Dunk wastefully headed over the bar. Arsenal’s lacklustre display was summed up by the way Alex Iwobi was easily dispossessed inside his own half by Anthony Knockaert who was denied only by another good save from Cech. Worse was to come for Arsenal in the 26th minute when Laurent Koscielny gave the ball away before Shkodran Mustafi could not reach Gross’s pinpoint cross, allowing Murray a free header that the striker directed past Cech for his 11th league goal of the season. – A sense of nervousness – Aubameyang’s reply, shortly before half-time, had the effect of quietening those fans who had taunted Wenger and injected a sense of nervousness into Brighton’s play. The former Borussia Dortmund striker reacted well to turn home Granit Xhaka’s drilled pass in the 43rd minute and Arsenal might have been level had Laurent Koscielny not headed against the post in first-half added-time. The interval came at the right time for Brighton and while the Seagulls didn’t develop the same momentum at the start of the second period, they again showed they could stretch the Arsenal defence. The Gunners, though, stood firm and with Mesut Ozil becoming more prominent, stepped up their efforts to find an equaliser. Ozil had been quiet in the first half but a powerful run and shot brought a fine save from Mat Ryan before the German’s threaded pass almost let in Aubameyang for his second goal. But Arsenal were unable to sustain the pressure needed to break Brighton down for a second time.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .