PDP Chairman, Secondus. Photo: TWITTER/UcheSecondus National Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, yesterday accused the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration of negating the principles of democracy and expectations of Nigerians through lies, deceits and nepotism. He made the assertion at Afikpo in Afikpo North Local Council of Ebonyi State during a solidarity rally organised by Ebonyi South Public Officers Development Forum (ESPODF). He also accused former Rivers State Governor and Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi of deceiving the Southeast zone with his campaign to vote President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019 to enable the zone produce the President in 2023. “We will not be deceived. Nobody can pull the wool over our eyes any more. The best party for Ndigbo is the PDP and that is where the future lies. No one will deceive us. A minister went to University at Awka the other day talking about APC and the chances of Ndigbo, that’s another deceit and he cannot succeed. We have been meted here with deceit and lies and nepotism. “When we talk about how they have instituted nepotism, they will say it is hate speech. Our people have been marginalised, our party was founded on the ground of National unity and that’s why nobody can lay claim on this party.” Continuing, the PDP, which described Amaechi’s comments as deceit also accused the ruling APC of instituting nepotism in the country by marginalising minorities in its policies, programmes, appointments and projects. He commended Governor Dave Umahi for his development strides and unity of the party in the state. Speaking, Umahi said PDP would remain strong and united despite the antics of the opposition. He expressed dismay that former Governor Martin Elechi, who he described as his grandfather, was teaming up with the Minister of Science and Technology, Ogbonnaya Onu to wrestle power from him in 2019. Umahi said he lost his house, filing station, hotel and other valuable property because of his support for Elechi when Onu contested governorship in 2007 against him (Elechi), which he lost to him and that the former governor and Onu have teamed up to fight him, describing it as irony of life. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .