 Joke Silva  This is in fulfillment of this year’s theme ‘Powering Change: Women in Innovation and Creativity,’ as proclaimed by the world body, WIPO. The celebration will be in partnership with the Faculty of Engineering, Delta State University (DELSU), Oleh Campus, Isoko South Local Council Area, Delta State. At the event, a series of activities will be held to underscore the  role of intellectual property rights in innovation and creativity. The programme includes lectures on intellectual property, exhibition of innovative products, quiz competition, drama performance, and presentation of awards to Nigerian female inventors and creators such as screen star, Joke Silva, 1980s ‘Nigeria go Survive’ fame, Veno Marioghae-Mbanefo, dance queen, Kaffy and Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye. More than 500 guests from creators, inventors and entrepreneurs to policymakers and intellectual property lawyers, have already been confirmed to take part in the celebration. Special Guest of Honour for the event will be former Governor of Delta State, Dr. Emmanuel Eweta Uduaghan. Lecture on the celebration theme will be delivered by Senator Iyere Ihenyen. A statement from the world body regarding the celebration aptly notes, “Every April 26, we celebrate World Intellectual Property Day to learn about the role that intellectual property rights (patents, trademarks, industrial designs, copyright) play in encouraging innovation and creativity. In 2000, WIPO’s member states designated April 26, the day on which the WIPO Convention came into force in 1970, as World IP Day with the aim of increasing general understanding of IP. “Since then, World IP Day has offered a unique opportunity each year to join with others around the globe to consider how IP contributes to the flourishing of music and the arts and to driving the technological innovation that helps shape our world. This year’s World Intellectual Property Day campaign celebrates the brilliance, ingenuity, curiosity and courage of the women, who are driving change in our world and shaping our common future. “Every day women come up with game-changing inventions and life-enhancing creations that transform lives and advance human understanding from astrophysics to nanotechnology and from medicine to artificial intelligence and robotics. And in the creative sphere, whether in the movies, animation, music, fashion, design, sculpture, dance, literature, art and more, women are re-imagining culture, testing the limits of artistry and creative expression, drawing us into new worlds of experience and understanding. “The important and inspiring contributions of countless women around the globe are powering change in our world. Their “can do” attitude is an inspiration to us all. And their remarkable achievements are an invaluable legacy for young girls today with aspirations to become the inventors and creators of tomorrow. “More than ever before, women are taking up leadership roles and making their voices heard in the science, technology, business and the arts. This is good news. With women and men working together, we strengthen humanity’s hand, and improve our ability to enrich our shared cultural wealth and develop effective solutions to alleviate poverty, boost global health, and safeguard the environment. “The time is ripe to reflect on ways to ensure that increasing numbers of women and girls across the globe engage in innovation and creativity, and why this is so important. This year’s World Intellectual Property Day celebration is an opportunity to highlight how the intellectual property (IP) system can support innovative and creative women (and indeed everyone) in their quest. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .