 Sound Sultan and Aramide performing at the event  The soulful singer thrilled guests with top-notch songs that kept them entertained all through her performance. Dressed in a shiny green outfit, the Funmilowo singer was ecstatic and free-spirited as she thrilled all to her well- rehearsed tunes The star-studded invite-only event, which was in commemoration of International Women’s Day live to it billing as a celebration of live music, creativity and talent, as artistes on the bill gave good account of themselves, leaving the audience with an experience that will remain indelible. Clay kicked off the concert, thus paving way for the big acts such as Sound Sultan, Niniola, Johnny Drille, Saeon, and Sir Dauda. Others on stage on the evening are Temmie, Tjan, Morayo, Michael Meme, Okeimute, Yimika, and Isaac Geralds. Held at the Hard Rock Café, Oniru in Victoria Islandsong, highpoints of the evening was when Aramide mounted the stage with Sound Sultan, Korker and Sir Dauda as they jointly performed the remix of her hit song ‘Funmilowo’ which got the crowd asking for more. Expressing how she felt on the success of the event, Aramide said, “This is my first concert and I wanted to do something different. I wanted to have conversations through songs, reason it was called ‘Songversations ‘ in the first place. In addition the month of March is the month of women and I wanted to celebrate women and mothers. I am glad I was able to do that.” 
 
Asked why she fixed the concert on the International Women Day, the singer said,  “As a woman, I get to lend my voice to the women struggle. As for the occasion, it’s about sharing the music and the messages in the music. Women need to come together to support each other. “There are so many things we are fighting for like respect and equality; we need to come together before we can win our battle. We need to come together and support each other. I love my mother; I sent her a message this morning to show how grateful I am and I want to say happy Mothers Day to her and all the Nigerian women.” In a chat with The Guardian, former Chief Judge of Lagos State and now Chairperson, Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission (LASIEC), Ayotunde Philips said,  “So far, the women struggle has yielded some positive result. In most establishments now, there must be a female employee at the management level. Women are now recognised and can now contest any position with a man. You see that we now have women Minister, Editors, Judges; we even have female Chief Justice, though, there is still a long way to go but for now, we are succeeding.” She advised other women to do their best, work hard, take care of their family, love and train their children. “No matter how busy you are, have time for your children, they are the future and they would rescue Nigeria from the present circumstance,” she added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .