Ibrahim Idris, Inspector General of Police. • Freed students to reunite with families today
• Regular patrol of re-opened North East roads scaring away terrorists The police high command has refuted a report credited to the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris, where he was quoted that the last Dapchi schoolgirl, Leah Sharibu, was to be released yesterday.  It maintained that the nation’s chief cop was misquoted. The refutal was contained in a statement issued yesterday in Abuja by Force Public Relations Officer, Jimoh Moshood, saying the police have no clue yet on the release of Sharibu. The statement reads: “The attention of the Nigeria Police Force has been drawn to the publication on some social media and conventional media platforms indicating that the Inspector General of Police said the last Dapchi school girl will be released soon. “ The remark of the IGP was misunderstood and misquoted. The misunderstanding may be as a result of the already released Dapchi schoolgirls expected back home in Yobe State today (yesterday) but could not arrive due to weather condition. The IGP could not also proceed to Dapchi because of same reason. “The force wishes the public and the media to disregard the purported statement as not what the IGP meant. “The force therefore reiterates that it has no information yet on the release of the last Dapchi schoolgirl. “This release should be taken as the true position of the IGP’s statement.” However, the 104 rescued students yesterday arrived Maiduguri, the Borno State enroute Damaturu, the Yobe State capital to reunite with their families after a meeting at the weekend with President Muhammadu Buhari in Abuja. The girls were airlifted by a facility belonging to the Nigeria Air Force (NAF) and touched ground at its Maiduguri base around 10:00a.m. The students were released unconditionally by Boko Haram terrorists at Dapchi and Jumbam villages on March 21, 2018 at about 8:00a.m. after a 30-day captivity having being abducted on February 19 from their school, Government Girls Technical College (GGSTC) in Dapchi, Yobe State. The schoolgirls were accompanied by
government officials and representatives of parents before departing Maiduguri in a convoy of buses for Damaturul. They are to be formally handed over this afternoon to their parents by the Theatre Commander, Operation Lafiya Dole, Maj.-Gen. Rogers Nicholas. Meanwhile, the commander has said the regular patrol of the re-opened roads in the North East was scaring away insurgents from launching attacks in the region. Read More: Dapchi awaits release of Christian girl held by Boko Haram Nicholas dropped the hint at the weekend in Maiduguri while re-opening the shut Maiduguri-Bama-Banki road for motorists and travellers. He said the regular plying of the highways had prevented the sect from attacking soft targets, including camps of internally displaced person (IDPs), markets and places of worship in the state. According to him, the 133-kilometre road was closed on September 1, 2014 due to insurgency on the axis and Sambisa Forest. His words: “Today marks another remarkable occasion in the lives of Borno people and military in the Operation Lafiya Dole. In the course of our operations with our Camerounian counterpart, we got rid of insurgents.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .