 Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami  They are Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, director general, National Information Technology Development Agency, (NITDA); and John Obaro, MD/CEO, SystemSpecs Ltd.Both are distinguished Nigerians and they will speak on the theme “Leveraging ICT Value for Building Institutions” at the event, widely regarded as the most prestigious annual event available in the ICT industry in Nigeria. This year’s Beacon of ICT Distinguished Lecture/Awards Series is slated for Saturday, April 28, 2018, at the prestigious Eko Hotels and Suites, Lagos.According to Ken Nwogbo, CEO, Communication Week Media Ltd, organisers of the BoICT Distinguished Lecture/Awards Series, “the choice of Pantami, DG of NITDA is deliberate because he is an exceptional public servant conducting government business in transparent manner” Regarded as the IT sector’s anti-corruption Czar, Pantami, has redefined public service elevating NITDA as one of the most respected agencies in Nigeria.Prior to his appointment, he worked as an academic in various capacities ad has authored more than a dozen books on many areas ranging from Technology, Religion and Peaceful coexistence. The NITDA boss will be joined by John Obaro, a technology entrepreneur, public speaker and founder of SystemSpecs Nigeria Limited.Obaro is passionate about promoting and advancing of local software development.A mentor and motivator, Obaro has given presentations and speeches advocating youth empowerment and IT entrepreneurship
Pantami and Obaro, will join the exclusive list of keynote speakers at BoICT Distinguished Lecture Series. Past speakers include: Dr. Ernest Ndukwe, then executive vice chairman, Nigeria Communications Commission (NCC); Engr. Yomi Bolarinwa, former Director-General of National Broadcasting Commission (NBC); Dr. Jean Luc Fort, CEO at OR System France and a specialist in Counterparty Risk; and Professor Chris Nwagboso, Chairman, Knowledge Factory International, United Kingdom. Others are: Uche Orji, managing director/chief executive officer, Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA); Biodu Omoniyi, Managing Director/CEO, VDT Communications; Ayotunde Coker, Managing Director, Rack Centre Limited; and Peter Adedayo Arogundade, managing director and chief executive officer, Sidmach Technologies Nigeria Limited The events drew top politicians and government functionaries as well captains in the ICT industry as well financial institutions.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .