 Assistant Choir Master, Elder Sesan Taiwo; Superintendent and host pastor, S.E.A Oludare; Chairperson, 2018 Planning Committee, Deaconess Shade Jacobs and member 2018 Planning Committee, Brother ‘Lekan Oluyelu… in Lagos  Scheduled for Sunday, March 18 from 5pm at the church premises on 13 Odewale Street, Alagomeji, Off Hughes Avenue, Yaba, it would be a remarkable Sunday evening of the best of musical renditions that cut across genres such as classical, contemporary, spirituals, hymns, solos and traditional music. It would also be an unforgettable three hours of enthralling musical voyage that would calm nerves and for partaking in the blessings of the Lord. There will also be short messages at intervals to edify the spirit. Consistently staged since March 1998, the concert has grown into a yearly feast that everyone looks forward to with interest. The choir draws membership from many churches all over Lagos, including CAC churches and those interested in singing set music to form a massive choir of 400 hundred exceptional singers. With ‘Songs of Praise 2018’ as theme for this year’s concert, church superintendent and host pastor, S.E.A Oludare, said, “We have successfully gathered all these singers, who have been rehearsing for some time. The floodgate of music would be thrown open on March 18 so the audience can have a total relish of mellifluous voices. We are inviting as many people as possible; there is no gate fee but they are guaranteed the best of times in a serene environment with the Lord. By the grace of God, we are proud to say our choir is one of the best choirs to be reckoned with in Christ Apostolic Church worldwide.” In spite of the challenges of putting the event together, the programme has remained consistent on the church’s event calendar due to the diligence of a formidable planning committee, headed this year by Deaconess Shade Jacobs, who said, “Piecing all the beautiful parts of the programme together this year has not been that easy but with God all things are possible. We chose this period because it coincides with when we started this journey 20 years ago. We started exactly March 1998 and this is another March and it is so beautiful now that the programme also falls within the Lent and Easter period and there is no better time for us to do this than now.” While highlighting the concert background, Elder Sesan Taiwo, stated, “The programme came into existence as a result of an invitation to perform with other choirs by the MUSON Centre in 1997. At that time, our choir was among the selected few because of our excellence. When we got there, we were dealing with one of our pastors, then Pastor Rotimi Oluseye, and some people who were present. It was then he felt we could have our own version of the programme. By the time we left that performance, we met and resolved to replicate the programme our own way. This was November 1997. The first outing was tagged ‘Mass Choir Performance,’ where all the choirs, both in CAC and other churches, converged and sang to the glory of God.”Led by the talented Sister Bisola Akinsola, it would be an evening of musical splendour that resonate for a long in the minds of those fortunate to be led by the spirit to attend.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .