Patoranking (left), Walid and Grey C Right after the announcement of his deal with the global music publishing company Warner/Chappell, reggae-dancehall act, Patrick Nnaemeka Okorie well known as Patoranking has announced his own record label, Amari Musiq. The new label is part of strategies by the Alubarika singer aimed at expanding his career. Also unveiled with the label were two new artistes, Grey C, a young talented vocalist, whose new single Rude boy is set to dropped yesterday serve as the first release from the record label, and singer Walid, a Tanzania. Sharing his excitement on his Instagram page, Patoranking said “Really happy to finally announce my label Amari Musiq. Helping others has always been my number one goal and I couldn’t be happier to extend the support I’ve had to others. Love to everyone who has supported the journey so far! Get out of your comfort zone today and make that thing happen. Here’s to more music and new talent.” Amari Musiq will now be home for the artistic trio, and hopes to impact the music scene with the best quality of music, compelling visuals aimed at making Africa visible to the world. The Ebonyi state native started his musical career, doing underground collaborations with artistes such as XProject, Konga, Slam and Reggie Rockstone. In 2010, he signed a record deal with K-Solo’s Igberaga Records, releasing Up in D Club under the outfit. In May 2012, Patoranking released a single titled Iya Bisi a fusion of dancehall and Fuji, featured Qdot and Kbaj. The song,was produced by Drumphase. With the release of the audio and video for the song Alubarika, which literally translates to ‘God’s Blessings’ simultaneously on September 12, 2013, featuring vocals from Egberi Papa 1 of Bayelsa, Timaya, he became a protégé of Dem Mama Records after the collaboration. He signed a record deal with Foston Musik in February 2014, hence, ended his affiliation with Dem Mama Records, and released Girlie O, a single that put him in the limelight.
On February 9, 2015, he announced via Instagram that he signed a distribution deal with VP Records. The year marked a successful year for the Ijegu-Egba Satellite town raised as two of his singles —Daniella Whine and My Woman, My Everything were chart toppers on the MTV base Official Naija Top 10 Chart. While Daniella Whine debuted at No. 4 in May, and went on top the chart at No. 1 in June, My Woman, My Everything, also made the chart when it was released, peaking at No. 2.
In January 2016, the sky-level master was announced as one of the judges for the maiden edition of the singing competition, The Voice Nigeria. He released his debut studio album, God Over Everything, on August 1, 2016. The album features guest appearances from Phyno, Wizkid, Sarkodi, Olamide, Elephant Man and Wasiu Ayinde Marshal. It debuted at No. 4 on the Billboard’s Reggae Albums chart.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .