 Austen C. Ukachi  No less than four times in the Scriptures is this fact emphasized upon that we are a product of a sovereign choice (Eph.1:4; John 15:16; 2 Thess: 2:13; Rev.17:14). The word “chosen” refers to our election by God. The word “chosen” connotes a deliberate act of choice out of many. As John MacArthur wrote, the word “chosen” indicates that “God not only choose us by himself, but for himself to the praise of his own glory.” He further adds, “God’s election or predestination does not operate apart from or nullify man’s responsibility to believe in Christ as Lord and Saviour.” God’s words in Acts 9:15 – 16, concerning the apostle Paul better illustrates what it means to be chosen by God. “But the Lord said to him, “Go, for he is a chosen vessel of Mine to bear My name before Gentiles, kings, and the children of Israel. For I will show him how many things he must suffer for My name’s sake.” Vessels Of Mercy We were chosen in Christ Jesus as sons of God “long before the foundation of the world.” Romans 9:23 states, “and that He might make known the riches of His glory on the vessels of mercy, which He had prepared beforehand for glory.” The prerogative of our election is not ours but God’s. We did not do anything to qualify for this election; nor do we deserve it. God chose us in Him out of mercy and out of his own volition. He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world, which nullifies any human influence. God’s election does not confer on us any privilege or air of superiority, rather it bestows on us the privilege of being made in his likeness, having his character, having his power and having the blessings of sonship. God’s Sovereign Choice God chose us in Him in the exercise of His sovereign right, which is not subject to human approval or questioning. Who is man to question God’s choice or decision? Like Job said, “Behold, God is exalted by His Power; who teaches like Him? Who has assigned Him His way, or who has said, You have done wrong?” (Job 36:22-23). Why Are We Chosen? God never does anything without a purpose. He elected us for his own purpose and to show forth his glory. He chose Paul in order that he may bear His name “before Gentiles, kings, and the children of Israel.” Jesus said we were chosen to bear fruits that would abide. This includes godly character, righteous behaviour and bringing others to Christ,  (John 15:16). Bearing fruits of righteousness brings glory to God. We are chosen so that we can make the virtues of Christ felt everywhere we are. We bear the fragrance of Christ and through us; the world gets to perceive his fragrance. Finally, Peter adds to the purpose of our election thus: “But you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, His own special people, that you may proclaim the praises of Him who called you out of darkness into His marvelous light; who once were not a people but are now the people of God, who had not obtained mercy but now have obtained mercy.” Therefore, as God’s chosen vessels we must be conscious of our election and seek to fulfill our purpose. Contact:pastoracukachi@gmail.com To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .