Prof. Iyorwuese Hagher Founding Chairman, Association of Pro-chancellors of Private Universities of Nigeria and former Ambassador to Canada and Mexico, Prof. Iyorwuese Hagher has stepped down as the chairman of the association to seek election as the president of Nigeria. Although he has not disclosed the political platform he would use to actualize his ambition, the entry of Hagher, an academic of note who hails from Nigeria’s South-South geo-political zone, is expected to add quality to the competition. Speaking to journalist shortly after the seventh meeting of the association that comprised 68 private universities in Nigeria, Prof. Hagher said he choose to step down on his own volition because of the love he has for the organization and Nigeria in general.He said after tremendous pressure, he has decided to join the race for the Nigeria presidential election in 2019. According to him: “After tremendous pressure from my friends, political leaders, spiritual fathers and mothers, traditional leaders, youth organisations, human rights advocacy groups, Nigeria diplomats, Nigerians in Diaspora, my past and present university students and relatives of the voiceless masses, I have decided to join the race for the Nigeria presidential election in 2019. “I have bowed to the pressure for the love of this country. In taking this decision I have also consulted widely. I leave the association that I founded in the hands of capable man Pro-chancellor and chairman, Caleb University, Lagos, Prof. Fola Tayo. He said he decided to totally insulate the association from partisan politics so that it will be able to continue to dialogue and bargain with the Federal Government to improve on the excellent foundation private universities are laying to stabilize and raise the standard of tertiary education in the country. “It has been a great joy to grow together with my colleagues to rebuild our vision for a greater and better Nigeria on the foundation of the best education for all Nigerians as we speed up to catch up the rest of the modern world to stabilize our democracy, rapidly develop our economy and provide high end technology,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .