 Students and teachers of Red House celebrate with the trophy at the end of the 2018 Army Children Junior High School inter-house sports competition held at the General Tukur Buratai Sports Field Army Cantonment, Ikeja, Lagos. Third from right is the school’s principal, Prince Ade Adepetun. PHOTO: Onyinyechukwu Agwubilo.  At the end of the ceremony, Red House topped the medals table with seven gold, eight silver and six bronze to push Purple House to the second position with six gold, four silver and three bronze medals. Green House finished third with five gold, four silver and two bronze medals, just as Blue House placed fourth with one gold, two silver and two bronze medals, while Yellow House finished in fifth position with one silver and six bronze medals. The march past event was won by Purple House. People from all walks of life, including parents, who turned out en masse to support their children, attended the colourful inter-house sports competition. It was not just the students that participated in the activity as parents, teachers, invited schools and old students took part in various activities. Speaking at the occasion, the school’s principal, Prince Ade Adepetun commended the teachers for their efforts, just as he thanked the parents and those who sponsored the event. He advised Nigeria sports administrators to go back to the grassroots to discover more talents for the country, adding, “through the inter-house sports competition, we can discover more athletes for the country the same way the likes of Austin J.J. Okocha was discovered many years ago.” He revealed that some students from the school have made it to the national level, including Omobolale Ojo, who is currently a sprinter with Lagos State. Ojo was discovered last year. He also commended Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode for his support for school sports, adding that students need to engage in physical activities in the morning to keep fit. He admonished the winners at the inter-house competition not to rest n their oars, just as he told the losers not to give up.Some of the parents, who spoke with The Guardian at the occasion expressed their happiness and urged the teachers to improve on their sports training. Assistant prefect of the school, Adewale Tajudeen, who won the 200m event for Green House, said he was excited for the victory. He urged the students to practice more as to achieve good result in future sporting activities. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .