Yahaya Bello Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello has admonished Nigerians to tolerate one another and continue to sacrifice for the greatness of Nigeria, like Jesus Christ do for mankind. The governor said his Easter message to the people of the state, urged Nigerians to show love to all, regardless of status, colour or race in the spirit of Jesus Christ, who died for all to make the world a better place. In a she statement signed by his Director General of Media and Publicity, Kingsley Fanwo, Bello said Jesus Christ came to die for all to be saved, adding: “He sacrificed for the greatness of the world. He loved all humans on the face of the earth and never discriminated against anyone, not even the sinners. “We owe this season a great sense of sacrifice and tolerance. We need to show love to all across the world and shun hate and discrimination, like Jesus Christ, who accommodated all. Let us accommodate all, because everyone is a creature of God.” He also charged Nigerians to support the President Muhammadu Buhari administration to achieve its set goals for the country, assuring that their sacrifices was already being positive results. He said: “We have great potentials as a nation, almost unmatched by any black nation on earth. But the greed of the past brought the nation on her knees, as the giant became the beggar. “The advent of the present administration has re-launched the hope of the nation with positive achievements that are challenging our patience. “We must continue to make sacrifices, make the right choices and believe in the sterling leadership of Buhari to stir the nation away from its ignoble past. “In Kogi State, my administration has made tough choices to strengthen our institutions and erect big, strong and dependable development pillars. Today, Kogi is better and will be one of the best in the nation. “I urge our people to keep faith in our administration and continue to support us through the rungs of progress.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .