 Babafemi Ojudu  Ojudu, in a radio programme monitored yesterday on Adaba FM, Akure, stressed that he would moved against any plans to rig the election in favour of any aspirant in the state.He maintained that only free and fair primary election would guaranteed victory for the party in the July 14, 2018 governorship poll, warning against the alleged plans by some who are preparing to rig the primary election to desist from the act. According to him, “Ondo formula remains in Ondo. We are going to have primary in Ekiti and I want to assure you, anybody who knows my history, who knows my commitment, who knows my network, who knows what I am capable of doing, will not come and try anything in Ekiti. “I have fought and go to jail because of democracy. Anybody should not come and rig our primary in Ekiti. We have resolved and determined that we will do the primary and it will be clear to everybody. “I have made a promise that if the primary election is free, fair and credible, and If I lose, I will support whoever emerges and also if I win, I will work with other aspirants. “So, if the formula is to rig and manipulate our primary election, let nobody brings it to Ekiti, it won’t work because we will resist it. Let anybody who is coming from Ondo to allow us have peace in Ekiti.”He dispelled the rumour that President Muhammadu Buhari endorsed an aspirant in Ekiti. The president believes in due process,’’ he insisted. The former senator disclosed that he joined the governorship race to better the lives of the masses and to create numerous employment opportunities for them. Meanwhile,  the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Bayelsa‎ State has asked those, who are still in the All Progressives Congress (APC) to stop wasting their time in the party, as nothing good will happen to them under the present leadership in the state.
 
The party said, the leadership of APC is busy promoting nepotism by appointing only kinsmen and close relatives while those, who sweated in the last elections are completely abandoned or left to settle for crumbs. The PDP made the declaration on Wednesday following a courtesy visit by some former members of the APC to Dickson‎ at the Government House in Yenagoa.Led by a former State Chairman of the PDP, Dr. Tarila Tebepah,  the returnee members had gone to pledge their loyalty and commitment to the governor and the party, assuring him that, they would work to ensure its victory in the next general and governorship elections.The PDP in a statement by its Chairman, Cleopas Moses called on the few remnants of the APC to leave the drowning party. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .