Senator Dino Melaye PHOTO: TWITTER/ NIGERIAN SENATE Bello dissociates self from involvement 
The Senator representing Kogi West Senatorial District, Dino Melaye, has alleged threat to his life. He raised the alarm in separate petitions to the United Nation’s (UN) Resident Representative, and the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris. The petition was also addressed to the ambassadors of the United States, Germany, Canada and the High Commissioner of the United Kingdom. The Amnesty International, Transparency International and the Human Rights’ Watch, were also petitioned. Melaye alleged the plot by his ‘political enemies’ to murder him ‘extra-judicially.’ He urged the inspector general of police, to raise a neutral police team to investigate the allegation of “gun running” leveled against him by the Kogi State Police Command and the Yahaya Bello-led Kogi State government. The senator called on them to rescue him from the “willful, intentional harassment, oppression, political victimisation and threat to life.” Melaye further asked the international community to guarantee his fundamental rights to liberty and safety from fear and personal harm to his person, as well as threats to terminate his life. Meanwhile, Governor Yahaya Bello has debunked Melaye’s allegation of being behind the plot. A statement by his Director General, Media and Publicity disclosed this yesterday in Lokoja. He said: “As far as we are concerned, we have no problem with Melaye. It was the police that invited him for questioning, based on their investigation. “He should face the issue and leave the governor out of matters surrounding his face-off with the police.” Read More: Finally, Dino Melaye meets his nemesis The statement added that the governor is a law-abiding citizen who would not involve himself in such criminality. His counsel, Ricky Tarfa (SAN), had in the petition to the inspector general of police, averred that: “The fact that our client is now the one alleged to be a gun runner by the police in Kogi State is extremely suspicious, and with all due respect smacks of a set up. “Our client who is abroad on an official trip had it brought to his notice, and immediately informed us about the plans to set him up. He added that some suspects would be paraded as having named him as their sponsor. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .