 Kwara State Governor, Alhaji Abdulfatah Ahmed  They said the enforcement of such a law  would have a drastic effect on the nation’s economy and the hospitality industry. They spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in separate interviews on Friday in Lagos. NAN reports that the Kwara State Government had  on March 13 banned the public sales,  consumption and production of alcohol in the state. Mr Adeniyi Ologun, the Executive Secretary of the Hotel and Personnel Services Employers’ Association of Nigeria (HOPESEA) said that such a decision would cause restrictions on freedom to invest. Ologun said that the development was a minus for investors in the hospitality industry. Read More: Kwara signs bill stopping payment of pension to ex-governors, deputies He said that  hoteliers had tried to make huge gains from the sales of alcohol to be able to pay the various  taxes levied on them over the years. ” Implementing the new law will force several of our members  out of job and it  will be compounding our problems, ” he said. Also, Mr Ayo Olumoko, the Deputy President , Federation of Tourism Association of Nigeria (FTAN), Southwest zone said that considerations should be given to Christians and hospitality players in the state. He said the state government banning sales, consumption and production of alcohol  would have adverse effect on them. Olumoko said that the development was an indication that the state was trying to be counted as a Sharia state. He said that since  the state comprised of both Christians and Muslims, both religions’ interests  must be considered by the government while enacting any law. ” Not now that there  is an economic downturn when people are looking for things to recreate with  and make themselves happy that the state should enforce its ban on alcohol. ” This will also affect our cultural and traditional activities. “Some of those alcohol that had been banned are used by the elders to perform cultural rites during traditional ceremonies. ” I think the Kwara State Government  needs to  reflect on the effect of such a decision on Christians, our traditional activities and the hospitality firms,” he said. Also, Mr Lanre Awoseyin, the President of the Nigeria Hotel Association (NHA) said that the ban would not be adhered to because Nigerians generally were fun lovers. He said that this decision would give room to trade restrictions and reduce internally generated revenue for the state government. According to him, the taxes they generate from each hospitality firm will no longer be and people will continue to consume it in secrecy. “I  am speaking from experience; you see, even in the north where a law like this was made in the past, it never worked.” Awoseyin said that people were still transporting alcohol there only that they would not expose them to the public while in transit. They would cover them inside  truck, he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .