Prof. Afe Babalola (SAN), founder of Afe Babalola University (ABUAD), Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State • Receives Sir Ahmadu Bello Platinum Award
The renowned lawyer, Chief Afe Babalola (SAN), has charged the northern leaders to invest in their youths, saying that many of the rich men in that part of Nigeria have financial wherewithal to establish a fast-growing university like Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti (ABUAD) to impact on them positively. He said that instead of investing in private jets, rich individuals should come to ABUAD to learn how to establish a university, adding that if such university is established in every state of the federation, the country will be better for it. Babalola gave the charge yesterday at the Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti (ABUAD) campus while receiving award from the Northern Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN). He said that President Muhammadu Buhari might not be totally blamed for the social vices bedeviling the country, saying that the foundation was laid when the military took over from the political leaders who had vision for a better Nigeria. The founder of ABUAD said military’s take-over of government in 1966, which ushered in a lopsided unitary system in the country and abrogated the regional system, sew the seed of discord that metamorphosed into herdsmen killings and Boko Haram insurgency. The revered lawyer, who was decorated with the Sir Ahmadu Bello Platinum Award as the ‘The Icon of Greater Nigeria’ and Garkuwan Matasan Arewa Najeriya by the youth group, said: “Many of the rich men in the northern part of Nigeria have financial wherewithal to establish this kind of fast-growing university. All those blessed by God must contribute to build a university to help their youths. “There are many rich people in Nigeria who can establish this kind of university with the vision to bring quality education as well as moral and cultural values to the door-step of Nigerians. Let them come here to learn from what we are doing and replicate it in all the states and in 10 years, Nigeria will be better for it. Read More: AWP Network trains young  entrepreneurs at Afe Babalola University “Tell them that there is a university here. If they cannot build one, let them combine and fund one. Instead of investing in private jets, let them invest in the youths to secure the future. “Go to the North and propagate the ideals which my university stands for. Tell your leaders what we are doing with the youths. I am one man who has seen, tasted poverty and overcome it. I know what poverty is. That is why I said I must help the youths. Nigeria must be united at all cost for us to make a headway and overcome all our challenges.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .