PHOTO; PIUS UTOMI EKPEI / AFP The Super Eagles play against Adam Nawalka’s men at the Municipal Stadium in Wroclaw, as the teams begins their friendly games in the build up to the World Cup. Both sides hope to use the friendly as preparation for certain opponents in their respective groups at the World Cup. Super Eagles Coach Gernot Rohr noted in his pre-match conference that the Polish National team will be using this game to prepare for their match against the African side in their group, Senegal. “I suppose we are invited because they (Poland) are playing Senegal (at the World Cup),” Rohr said. He also stated that the Super Eagles will get some idea as to how to face Croatia in the World Cup. “It will be good preparation for Poland but also for us because Croatia has very high level.” The fixture will also present an opportunity to seek solutions to certain problems in the squad including the goalkeeping position. Rohr admitted in an interview with Przegląd Sportowy that one of the problems he must fix before the World Cup was the goalkeeping area. ‘’It is true we have a goalkeeping problem. Our problem is Ikeme’s illness (he was diagnosed with leukemia).” With options including Ikechukwu Ezenwa, Francis Uzoho, and Daniel Akpeyi, Rohr hopes to solve the goalkeeping crises. With Akpeyi unavailable due to visa issues, it was a straight duel between Ezenwa and Uzoho on who to start between the sticks for the friendly but Uzoho looks likely to start as Rohr hinted in his presser that Uzoho will start between the sticks at the friendly. Playing against a top marksman in Robert Lewandowski, the defence will face a genuine test on its solidity as well as its organisation. The absence of John Mikel Obi and Oghenekaro Etebo in the midfield could open up a spot for Torino’s Joel Obi but sources claim Rohr looks to trial Kelechi Iheanacho in the hole behind the striker. Junior Ajayi and Akwa United’s Gabriel Okechukwu will look to another game to make their Super Eagles debut as they could not secure visas into Poland. Read More: Ajayi faces impossible odds after maiden call-up Read More: Iheanacho takes Mikel’s role as Poland deploys 3-4-2-1 formation against Eagles  Borussia Dortmund’s Lukasz Piszcszek will be unavailable for Poland after he was granted paternity leave for his expected child. Sampdoria’s Bartosz Bereszynsk, and Slawomir Peszko also will play no part in the game due to injuries. The game kicks off at 08:45 pm; it will be the first time that Poland play against Nigeria. Possible XI: Uzoho; Abdullahi, Troost-Ekong, Balogun, Idowu; Ndidi, Onazi; Iwobi, Iheanacho, Moses; Ighalo To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .