Technology has its way of making life much easier. These days, there is a device or form of technology for everything, including things you didn’t even know you needed help with. We’ve rounded up the best gadgets that have been released so far this year that will leave your mind blown. It is also a way to get digital ideas for birthday presents or just treats for yourself. If you’re one who always loses their keys and ends up wishing you could give them call to find them, then perhaps your prayers have been answered. This cool device is a godsend for those who regularly lose their keys. You can attach all your keys to the gadget–which resembles a penknife–and fold them away in a neat little pocket-sized pack. The Keyport Pivot keeps your keys, a USB stick, a pen, a torch, and various other attachments you want. It also has a Bluetooth tracker you can enable and easily locate should you ever lose your keys again. Keyport Pivot. Photo credit: Newsday Have you ever opened your bag and found the items in it completely drenched from your water bottle? This can be especially annoying when you go to the gym and find your gym clothes soaked. Now, those days can be a thing of the past with a space-age water bottle designed with a fancy locking system that won’t spill a drop unless you tell it to. This one from Ion8 comes in 15 colours and is made from BPA-free, non-toxic plastic. MIRA Vacuum Insulated Travel Water Bottle Leak proof Double Walled Stainless Steel Cola Shape Portable No. photo credit: Pinterest Read More: Physically fit women 90 per cent less likely to develop dementia Working on a computer for a long period of time can strain the eyes, even with the software that reduces harmful blue light that emanates from digital screens. You should update your office and give your eyes a break with this BenQ Eye Care Monitor that features extra-high contrast and several different modes of low-blue light to choose from. BenQ Eye-Care Computer Monitor. Photo credit: Youtube Over the years, gadgets have gotten smaller and televisions have gotten bigger. Now, Samsung has released a television to rival the cinema close to you. Aptly named “The Wall”, the 146-inch screen will take up an entire wall in your home. Movie night will definitely not be the same. Samsung “The Wall” TV. Photo credit: Ars Technica If you’re new to flying drones and are looking for a gadget to begin with, Parrot, a French company who has carved a niche for tiny, fun-to-fly gadgets, has released an interesting mini camera drone for you. It features HD video streaming, fast charging and a number of modes, making it the perfect first drone for photographers, kids and flying novices. Parrot Mambo Drone. Photo credit: YouTube Read More: How To Make A Super Breakfast Smoothie