 Hajara Isah Jalingo<br />  Interestingly, the Kannywood movies in English are as well received as those rendered completely in Hausa. More so, they have thrown up talented actors with the ability to act in both Hausa language and reenacted in English. One of such talents is the inimitable Hajara Isah Jalingo. In her early 20s, Hajara has emerged as producers’ favourite for an actress who can interpret roles in both English and Hausa languages delightfully. Star of some of Kannywood’s acclaimed movies, including Light and Darkness and This is the Way, both films produced by Jammaje Productions, the Jalingo, Taraba State-born actress and recipient of last year’s City People Entertainment Awards for Best Promising Actress, has been playing a raised game since she joined Kannywood a few years back. Always the one cast to play the lead female role, the amiable Hajara is today regarded as one of the most beloved actresses of the Kannywood industry. A voracious reader, who likes to watch films and stay indoors when she is not on a movie set, Hajara revealled that she has a good friend, Sanusi Oscar, to thank for facilitating her entry into Kannywood. Soon as she secured parental consent to join the industry, Hajara hinted that she mentioned her decision to take to acting to Sanusi, who introduced her to some Kannywood filmmakers, who thereafter provided the opportunity she needed to walk her dream of becoming a screen actress. “Through the help of Sanni Oscar, I met a lot of the movers and shakers of Kannywood. They auditioned me and each time I auditioned, they had something positive to say. “They are always convinced that I will pull any role they give me through and it has been so, ever since I joined the industry.” Star of countless Kannywood movies, including Gwaska and Rariya, which fetched Hajara the Best Promising Actress award at last year’s City People Entertainment Awards, other movies that have benefitted from Hajara’s smart portrayal include There’s a Way, Light and Darkness and This is the Way. Hajara said Light and Darkness and This is the Way were very well received, adding: “I consider them my favourites movies yet, because they are big and popular films.” Asked to pick her favourite movie role yet, Hajara picked her role in the movie, There’s A Way, where she was cast as the daughter of a wealthy dude who fought hard to stop the relationship between his daughter and a folk that was struggling to survive. “I find the role and the movie memorable,” she said. Fluent in English and Hausa, Hajara said she has had and will continue to have an excellent working relationship with her senior and junior colleagues, whose support and backing, she has relied on to be able to remain in good standing. “I have enjoyed the backing of people like Falalu Dorayi, Kabiru Musa Jammaje and big actors, such as Salisu Mu’azu, Zainab Booth and Abba El-Mustapha, and I will continue to rely on their support and backing as I continue. “These actors and crewmembers ease your work and make things perfect for you. I am grateful to them and many others and also my fans, who have continued to show me so much love and who always commend me whenever they see or run into me.” Hajara’s career ambition is to be regarded as a world-class actress, and she also looks forward to producing films that would impact people positively and become hits across the world. She said: “I want my films to impact people positively, films with storylines that would promote our values and films that will not clash with our religion, culture and tradition. “I also want to make or be in films that will receive accolades and commendation, in addition to returns that will make me continue to do more. “I also want to act to a level where I will be regarded as a world-class Kannywood actress. I want to get to that stage in my career where people would look at me and say, ‘she is an icon, a legend.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .