 Lagos State governor, Akinwunmi Ambode  In his address during the second edition of the Bola Tinubu Youths Summit, held at MUSON Centre, Onikan Lagos last week, the Lagos State governor who was represented b his deputy, Mrs. Oluranti Adebule noted that it is very imperative to create a platform in which the benefits of the experience of the elders would be effectively combined with the creative and innovative ideas of young people in order to align the nation’s desire for good governance and growth with global trends. The summit was part of the activities lined up for the 66th birthday celebration of the National Leader of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The governor stated that his administration right from the inception believed in government of inclusion in which a level playing ground is provided for everyone including the youths so as to contribute to the growth and development of the country. While describing the theme of the summit: ‘Making Nigeria Work: Synergy Between Leadership and the New Generation’ as very apt and timely, Ambode stated that the summit was relevant as it came when political activities towards the 2019 general elections was gathering momentum. He noted that the summit could not be better organised than now when there is a general clamour for increased participation of the youths in governance, which according to him is inspired by the ‘Not Too Young to Run Bill’ that is fast gaining ground at the national assembly. Read More: Ambode tasks youth on political participation Ambode challenged youths across the country to be steadfast and continue to demonstrate good character in their quest to make positive difference in governance, urging them to show strong determination and draw inspiration from leaders who are selfless and people centred in their ideas, policies and ideologies. While eulogizing Tinubu for his leadership quality, he noted that his numerous contributions to the evolution and sustenance of democratic governance and ideals in Nigeria are widely acknowledged not only by Nigerians but also across the globe. The governor reiterated his administration resolve to continue to work hard in building on the legacies of the founding fathers of the state, added that Tinubu developed the template for the new and modern Lagos, which had made the state a reference point for good governance. According to him, “Tinubu’s passion for good governance, selflessness, doggedness and ability to groom young leaders made him to stand tall among leaders across the world. He urged the youths to make good advantage of the opportunity created by Tinubu’s political ideology, which recognises and allows young people’s participation in governance, and advised them to always engage themselves in intellectual discussions on leadership ideologies and vision for good governance and development. In his keynote address, human rights lawyer, Mr. Festus Keyamo (SAN) stated that though the nation is blessed with abundant human and material resources, the leadership problem has not allowed for any meaningful development. Hence, calling on the leadership to effectively utilise the nation’s economic resources to develop infrastructure and cater for the social needs of the masses. Keyamo commended President Muhammadu Buhari for his fight against corruption, noting that one of the factors militating against the country’s development since independence was corruption. He urged the president not to relent in spite of many forces that stood against the crusade, noting that people would not forget in a hurry his administration’s contributions to the ethical rebirth of a new Nigeria. The convener of the summit, Mr. Akanbi Sayeed Afonja said the summit, which has become an annual event was aimed at appreciating Tuinubu’s contributions to democracy in Nigeria and good governance in Lagos. He said, “It is the belief of his group that leaders that provided his people with good governance and built other leaders should be celebrated when they were still alive. I urge you youths to be very objective and focused and make constructive criticism where necessary to challenge those in position of authority to pay attention to the basic needs of the masses.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .