Super Eagles team captain, John Obi Mikel carried shoulder-high by his teammates after the team qualified for Russia 2018 World Cup. Coach Gernot Rohr says it is their dream to lift the trophy The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) yesterday signed another three years partnership deal with the Cadbury Nigeria Plc, maker of TomTom brand, as the official candy of the Super Eagles and other national football teams. The unveiling ceremony was held in Lagos, and was witnessed by the NFF’s President, Amaju Pinnick, Zimbabwean Football Association and COSAFA president, Philip Chiyangwa, NFF second Vice President, Mallam Shehu Dikko among others dignitaries. The sponsor details was not disclosed. Speaking on the bond, the Managing Director of Cadbury Nigeria Plc., Mr. Muhammad Amir Shamsi, said it was not a coincidence that both partners are going into the contract why identifying with the national football teams. “We’ve been long together when the Super Eagles went to play the Africa Cup of Nations in Angola, where we rewarded the team for a target with $10,000. We want to be a long time supporter of this beautiful game, which I think brings a lot of smiles and a lot of happiness to the people of this country. We will continue to support the team because winning and losing are part of the game. I think the pride of going to represent one’s country is the biggest achievement.” On his part, Dikko, who is also the chairman of Marketing, Sponsorship and TV Rights Committee and Strategic Studies Committee of the NFF, expressed delight at TomTom’s support for the NFF, saying it is a deal that will bring a win, win situation for both parties. “I want to thank Cadbury for coming back onboard. We all know that Cadbury has been around for a very long time with their association with the NFF. What we are doing today is amplifying what we have discussed; trying to take it to the next level because we all agreed and believed that the Super Eagles have moved to the next level under our watch and we are trying to make it as much better as possible,” he stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .