 The National Chairman, of All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Odigie-Oyegun PHOTO: PHILIP OJISUA  Oyegun made the declaration on Saturday in Katsina during a grand reception organized by the state APC chapter to receive prominent politicians who defected to his party from the PDP. He said since hundreds of thousands of PDP members had defected to APC, then the party was completely dead and buried. “Prominent politicians like Sen Idah, Barrister Ya’u Gwajo-Gwajo, a two time speaker of Katsina House Assembly, and Mr Nura Khalih also a two-time governorship candidate of the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) have all defected to APC today. “Now that prominent people and their followers have joined the APC, then, we have the right to declare PDP, APGA, and PDM as dead and buried in the state” he said Read More: APC wins seven councils in results declared by EDSIEC Oyegun called on the people of the state to give maximum support to President Buhari to enable him continue in his leadership of the country. “When the APC administration took over the mantle of leadership in 2015, the Nation Electricity supply was only 3000 megawatts. “Today, the electricity supply is 7000 megawatts.  The country has witnessed an increase of 4000 megawatts, ” he said Oyegun revealed that the president had used his experience to control insecurity in the country to its barest minimum. The chairman said that President Buhari had introduced several ways of reducing poverty through giving agriculture and economic empowerment to the people. Earlier, the Katsina state Gov. Alhaji Aminu Masari, commended the top PDP members that defected  to APC, saying that it was an indication of good governance in the state. He said that the top politicians that joined APC did so out of their own interest and they were ready to serve the people of the state. Masari said that the reception of the prominent politicians into the APC was assuring and the party was better positioned for the 2019 polls. “We are going to multiply the votes that we gave to President Buhari in 2015 during the forthcoming election of 2019”. Speaking on behalf of all the defectors, Sen. Ibrahim Idah, pledged their loyalty to the APC and promised to do their best to win more votes for the party in 2019. Also speaking, the APC Katsina state Chairman, Alhaji Shitu Shitu, said both new and old APC members were going to be treated equally. Shitu said there would be no discrimination in the ruling APC in the state. NAN reports that over 300,000 people defected  from PDP to the ruling APC in Katsina state during a special grand reception organized by the state APC chapter. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .