 Chidi Okoroafor  The moment you accept Jesus Christ as your Lord and Personal Saviour, you are enlisted into the battlefield and you are going to face all manner of trouble and trial. The Church of Jesus Christ, as a body, is also not left out in the share of tribulations and trials. The Church is passing through crucible trial and the power of hell has been let loose against the Soul of the Church. Heavenly race is not a hitch-free journey and Jesus Christ was sincere to tell us what to expect ahead of time. Jesus said in John 16:33, “These things I have spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.” We Are More Than Conquerors.  To be less than a conqueror is to be a prisoner.  It’s to be defeated; it’s to be chained to the chariot wheel of Satan. Greek word for “victory” is “hupernikao.” “We are hupernikao,” or the Latin translation of it would be super vinco. Actually, we are already “more than conquerors,” even while we are in the midst of the impossibilities. Our victorious position in any situation is not circumstantial. It is relational. We are united by faith to the victorious One, the Lord Jesus Christ! The only thing that can cause us to be defeated is if we disconnect our life from Christ. You can face the most difficult circumstances, the most terrifying enemies, and the most devastating ordeals with confidence. You don’t merely survive your trials; you’re “more than a conqueror.” As believers in Jesus Christ, we are soldiers in His army. We have before us the task of demolishing the strongholds. Remember what Paul said in II Corinthians 10:4: “For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds.” Who are exactly these enemies we are warring against? There is a three-fold enemy going against us: the world, the flesh, and the devil. We have our own flesh wanting our old life back. We have the world trying to drag us back. And we have the devil making sure it all goes according to plan! The fight rages on. If it’s not your flesh, it’s this world system or the devil. We are fighting against our old nature, the devil and this world – not the physical globe but this society that is separated from God. The world system and all its trappings are our enemies. The world is anti-God. What do you do, having identified the enemies of your soul? You must fight the good fight of the faith. Paul told Timothy: “Fight the good fight of the faith.” (I Timothy 6:12). The spiritual war we are involved in is a good fight. It is worth every ounce of energy you can muster up because the salvation of souls is at stake. Be strong in the Lord and in the power of His might. What happens, when you engage in a war with the enemies of your soul? Romans 8:37 has the answer: “Yet in all these things we are more than conquerors.” This is an endearing hope to all believers in Christ. It does not matter the challenge facing you, you are more than a conqueror and you shall be surpassingly victorious. You weren’t just made to overcome life’s problems. You were made to be more than a conqueror. Today’s Nugget:  You were made to be more than a conqueror. Prayer:  I affirm my faith in Jesus through Whom I shall be victorious. Prayer lines: 09078154261. Dr. Chidi Okoroafor, General Superintendent, Assemblies of God Nigeria E-mail: evangelgospel@yahoo.com  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .