 Abia State governor, Okezie Ikpeazu  The endorsement came at Okpuala Ngwa, the ancestral headquarters of Ngwa people, during the weekend. Moving the motion for the endorsement, former Senate President, Senator Adolf Wabara said, “Our son and our brother, Governor Okezie Ikpeazu is a silent achiever and performer. He has performed creditably and that confers on him the right to lead once more. Our people today speak with one voice to make a proclamation in support of the governor, asking him to contest again as Governor in 2019.” Seconding the motion, Chief  Chukwu Wachukwu, former Director-General of the National Directorate of Employment (NDE), said, “Abia North was governor for eight years with Orji Uzo Kalu, Abia Central governed for eight years with Senator Theodore Orji. Abia South is completing four years with Governor Ikpeazu, therefore, we as a people unanimously, through a voice vote, declare our support for the re-election of Dr Okezie Ikpeazu as Governor of Abia State in 2019, because he has done well and also because he must complete the eight year tenure of Abia South people.” Also speaking, eminent statesman, Elder Emmanuel Adaelu, explained that the governor has the constitutional right to seek re-election in 2019, and as such deserved the support of his people and the generality of Abians.“We have seen governors in Abia State and I will boldly state that there has not been any like Okezie Ikpeazu. He has done so well and the evidence of his great work are everywhere in Abia State for the world to see. So we are boldly and eloquently declaring our support for him to re-contest in 2019,” Elder Adaelu said. Former governorship candidate of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) in the state, Chief Reagan Ufomba, stressed that re-electing Ikpeazu in 2019 is a task for all Abians because he has performed beyond expectations across the three senatorial zones of the state. “In the spirit of equity, inclusiveness, fairness and justice, re-electing Governor Ikpeazu in 2019 is task for all Abians, from Ukwa through Umuahia to Arochukwu, because he has done well, and there is no alternative than to allow him to continue with his good work till 2023.” While calling on the governor to sustain the tempo of development, Ufomba said, “As a great Ukwa Ngwa son, know it today that your people are behind you. What this means is that the majority of Abia have asked you to contest again in 2019. “It is no longer about you. You don’t have a choice again, we, the people of Ukwa Ngwa, are asking you to contest again in 2019 to complete your tenure and to sustain the tempo of your outstanding performance.“Our unanimous adoption today is to let other Abians and the world know that we are solidly behind our son, to remain governor of Abia State. We also call on our Old Bende brothers to demonstrate love and oneness, as we have always done to them in the past, by ensuring that the Ukwa-Ngwa people enjoy two terms as exercised by other zones in the state.” Declaring the support of Ukwa-Ngwa traditional rulers for the governor, His Eminence, Eze Bernard Enweremadu, the Eze Ukwu of Ngwa Ukwu, told Ikpeazu that God in Heaven and ancestors are backing him to contest again in 2019.“Where we are gathered today is Okpuala Ngwa, the ancestral home of Ngwa people. God of heaven and our ancestors who gave us this land will bear witness that what we are asking for is our right. “If it is not just, if it is not fair, if it is not equitable for an Ngwa man to govern Abia eight years as others did, may we never succeed. But if it just, if it is fair and equitable for Ikpeazu, an Ngwa man, to complete his eight years as those before him did, God and our ancestors will grant us victory. As it was in 2015, so shall it be in 2019.” In his response, Ikpeazu described the adoption as a show of love and demonstration of the unflinching support of Ukwa/Ngwa people for him.He used the occasion to call on the people to go and get their Permanent Voters Card, as a sign of seriousness, if they want him to re-contest in 2019. “As an Ukwa Ngwa son, I understand the significance of what my people have done today. I am happy that my people have made this great and historical declaration. This has demonstrated our resolve and unity as a people. I thank everyone that is here today to make this historic declaration. “I will respond to your call, but before I do that, let me use this opportunity to call on our people and all Abians to go and get their voters card as that is the only way I will be assured that you want me again in 2019. You shouldn’t be here asking me to contest again in 2019, if you don’t have your voters card,” Ikpeazu said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .