 Akwa Ibom state governor, Udom Emmanuel  Known as Cultism and other Violent Behaviour Prohibition Order, the order takes effect from March 12, 2018.At the brief signing ceremony, Emmanuel said the Executive Order is to reenergize the existing criminal code law, Cap 38 Laws of Akwa Ibom State dated 2000. The proscribed groups include Vikings, Black Axe, KKK; Buccaneers, Mafia, Luttox (Junior Black Axe), Debam, Dew Pirates Confraternity, Icelanders, Red Skins, Pirates, Amoc, Akwa Marines and Utoto Groups (419). Others include groups found in secondary and primary schools such as the Luttox, The Red Skins, St. Stephens, Dewell, Sept 11 Group, Secret Sons of Satan, King Cobra, J.V (Junior Vikings), Bats, Predators, Black Ladies, Black Cross, Scavengers, Skylolo, Sons of Nights, Blood Brotherhood, Junior Buccaneers, White Angels; and Musket. Emmanuel who drew strength from Section 70 of the Criminal Code Law, Cap 38 Volume 2 laws of Akwa Ibom (2000), said although only three local government areas have security flashpoints, the law was binding and would be effected in all the 31 local councils of the state. Justifying the governor’s move while addressing newsmen in Uyo on Tuesday, the state’s Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Uwemedimo Nwoko, lamented that the problem of cultism and other unlawful acts in the state has become a major source of concern to the government. “In 2003, the administration of Obong Victor Attah enacted a law to prohibit cult groups and other unlawful and violence behavior. There is also a provision in the criminal code, which prohibits existence of secret societies. However, section 70 of the criminal code specifically requires the governor to; by order, list out cult groups and criminal societies and to prohibit them. There was no specific prohibition order prohibiting these cult groups by name. So this action is to give effect to the prohibition of all the cult groups from operating in any part of the state”.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .