 Olisa Metuh  The party said the hateful comment by the Presidency, through its aide, Lauretta Onochie, mocking Metuh’s worsened health condition and his being brought to the court from the hospital, has further confirmed that the interest of the current administration in the matter is beyond the bounds of seeking justice in its prosecution. The PDP, in a statement yesterday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said the Presidency had been intruding into Metuh’s case since inception just to set up the former spokesperson before the judiciary. “It is repulsive that a presidential aide has once again intruded directly, with malicious suggestions, in a matter that is on judicial trial, thus further exposing that Chief Metuh’s travails in the course of the trial, may have been politically hatched and orchestrated. “It is instructive to state that Chief Metuh, whose spinal cord ailment has badly deteriorated, was brought to court in his current medical state, sequel to the order of the trial judge. “It is public knowledge that Justice Abang on January 25, 2018 rejected medical reports from doctors at the Nnamdi Azikiwe Teaching Hospital, Nnewi, where Chief Metuh had been on admission and ordered him to appear in court on Monday, January 5, 2018 or have his bail revoked. In fact, the judge ruled that he would thenceforth not accept any other report issued by any medical doctor on the accused. “It is, therefore, irresponsible, wicked and an unpardonable act of inhumanity for the Presidency or any of its agents to mock Chief Metuh for obeying the order of court, even in his current state of health”, the statement stated. The party said it had information that government agents had been harassing medical aides and practitioners across the country for offering any form of treatment or assistance to Metuh. Also, it said that viewing such alongside negative and hostile disposition towards medical reports on Metuh, any responsible person could safely conclude that there is a grand conspiracy to persecute the accused. “While we are not opposed to the trial of any of our members for any matter whatsoever, we insist that the process must be fair without external influences and in strict compliance with provisions of the law,” it said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .