Young children exposed to five or more traumatic events in the first three years of childhood face a 76% possibility of having one or more delays in their language, emotional or brain development. The traumatic events experienced during childhood also causes an increased the risk for the following health problems in adulthood: depression, alcoholism, drug abuse, suicide attempts, heart and liver diseases, pregnancy problems, high stress, uncontrollable anger. Traumatic events include sexual abuse, physical abuse, domestic violence, community and school violence, medical trauma, motor vehicle accidents, acts of terrorism, war experiences, natural and human-made disasters, suicides, and other traumatic losses, according to the American Psychological Association. In most children, the more common forms of exposure to trauma involve abuse, neglect, domestic violence and bullying. For educators, it could be sometimes difficult to detect and address such issues because children often mask their pain and hardly express the distress they are feeling. School personnel, particularly educators should be the first line of defense in protecting children from abuse. Teachers, who spend more time with the children, play an important role in the detection and reporting of child abuse. Funda Wazi Foundation provides child-friendly and relevant resources and tools for children and adults that will assist them to learn and know how to address and control social challenges affecting children with a particular emphasis on child abuse. The foundation is organizing a Teachers Mentoring Programme. The Teachers Exploring through Mentorship (T.E.M) is a bi-annual program where professionals act as role models, offer advice and guidance regarding education, knowledge, skills and for their mentees. The foundation intends to enhance the capacity of parents, teachers, head of schools and caregivers to effectively reduce the social vices risk that children may be exposed to and create a safe and nurturing learning environment. This year, with the theme, “Strategies for effective prevention of children from abuse and related trauma”, the foundation hopes to provide a sound understanding of the impact of abuse and related trauma, which helps attendees protect children from trauma. Speakers for the programme scheduled for Friday, 6th April 2018 include experts such as  Dr Ena Tobor, Programme Manager, Trauma Care International Foundation, Praise Fowowe, Principal consultant of Praise Fowowe International and founder of Center for sex education and family life; Dr Rukayat Ogunbiyi, Mental Health Advocate Sanemind Advocacy Organization. Other speakers include, Mr. Olumide Okeowo, a Clinical Psychologist, Certified Trainer and a Performance Management Coach; Mrs. Dotun Akande, a renowned behavior analyst and the Founder/Proprietress of the Patrick Speech and Languages Centre; Mrs. Funmilayo Akinlami, Director TAA academy, School Consultant. Interested persons are required to pay a fee of N10,000 to the Guaranty Trust Bank Account Number: 0178957213. The fee covers programme materials, lunch and tea break. For three or more registered participants from the same school, there would be a 10% discount from the third participant. The program holds at Funtastica Land, 25 Olusoji Idowu Street, Ilupeju, Lagos.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .