From the 23 to the 25th of March, Lagos will witness the display of ingenious creativity and design at the Lagos Fashion Week. The Lagos Fashion Week (#LFWNG) formerly known as Lagos Fashion and Design Week (LFDW), in partnership with Heineken Nigeria, FETS Wallet, Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC), Garment Care and Style House Files (SHF) will host a 3-Day series of fashion presentations at The Wings – Oando. At the forward-looking event, LFWNG will also launch Fashion Focus Fund x Fets Wallet to support emerging designers. This year’s presentation will take an intimate salon-style format, the collection showcase will be followed by a client-designer reception adopting the ‘see now, buy now’ model that allows clients shop or order straight from presentations. The Autumn/Winter (A/W) presentations, which was introduced last year, speaks to African designers who are already creating collections for both traditional fashion seasons of Spring/Summer and Autumn/Winter and are seeking a global audience and customer base. It also speaks to Lagos Fashion Week’s commitment to catalysing the African Fashion industry ecosystem and providing greater avenues for commercial success for designers based on the continent. The Fashion Focus Fund, powered by Fets Wallet, the mobile money payment platform of choice for the sector, will provide business mentoring and a cash grant of N5,000,000 (Five Million Naira) to support the Fashion Focus finalist who best presents their business strategy for the year. Lagos Fashion Week Speaking on the launch, the Head, Brand and Corporate Communications at Fets Wallet Adebimpe Adejumo said, “At FETS Wallet, we are committed to providing opportunities for fashion to thrive using technology”. The Presentation series is entitled ‘Seasons’ – an ode to the metamorphosis of the African fashion industry, the emerging talents, key industry purveyors, the systems and structures, required to lead it to its promise land – a robust industry gravely impacting lives and the African economic landscape. Showcasing designers for the A/W presentations are Bridget Awosika, Emmy Kasbit, Gozel Green, GREY, IAMISIGO, Kenneth Ize, Maxivive, Mo Emmy Kasbit, Gozel Green, GREY, IAMISIGO, Kenneth Ize, Maxivive, Mo Agusto, Onalaja, Orange Culture, Re, Sisiano, Style Temple, Sunny Rose and Tsemaye Binitie. Speaking about the forthcoming event LFW Founder, Omoyemi Akerele said: “The inaugural A/W presentation was well received and we are excited for season two and to have the opportunity to once again create an impactful and immersive visual experience, that at its helm enhances client-designer engagement and fosters commerce. Fashion Focus Fund x Fets Wallet is a welcome addition to the support we provide for young and emerging designers on the scene and we look forward to its impact on their business.” The venue for the A/W presentations is The Wings – Oando, Ozumba Mbadiwe Avenue, Victoria Island, Lagos. Presentations are open to all. However, Registration is required via http://bit.ly/2Dyg9nZ For more information, visit: W: www.lagosfashionweek.ng
I: @lagosfashionweekofficial
M: +234 8180908128