PHOTO: AFP. Super Eagles Coach, Gernot Rohr has invited Mikel John Obi, Victor Moses to the 28-man squad to play in the friendly matches against Poland and Serbia this month. Joel Obi and Al Ahly’s Junior Ajayi received their first invites under Gernot Rohr with Obi’s last invitation coming in September 2014 for the Africa Nations Cup qualifier against South Africa. Ajayi, who has been impressive in the Egyptian League could be in line for his debut with the Super Eagles. He was part of the team that won a bronze medal at the Rio 2016 Olympic. Deportivo La Coruna goalkeeper, Francis Uzoho and left-back Brian Idowu, both make a return after impressing briefly on their debuts against Argentina. Leicester City duo of Wilfred Ndidi and Kelechi Iheanacho make the list as well as Arsenal’s Alex Iwobi. The released list has three members of the CHAN Eagles including Enyimba goalkeeper, Ikechukwu Ezenwa, Akwa United’s Gabriel Okechukwu and Lokomotiv Plovdiv’s Stephen Eze. Hapoel Be’er Sheva forward Anthony Nwakaeme did not make the list but his teammate John Ogu made the cut. Bursaspor midfielder, Mikel Agu also did not make the list.
The Super Eagles play against Poland on Friday, 23rd March, 2018 at the Stadium Wroclaw in Poland while the game against Serbia will hold four days later at The Hive in London. THE LIST
Goalkeepers: Francis Uzoho (Deportivo La Coruna, Spain); Ikechukwu Ezenwa (Enyimba FC); Daniel Akpeyi (Chippa United, South Africa) Defenders: Abdullahi Shehu (Bursaspor FC, Turkey); Tyronne Ebuehi (Ado Den Haag, The Netherlands); Olaoluwa Aina (Hull City, England); Elderson Echiejile (Cercle Brugge KSV, Belgium); Brian Idowu (Amkar Perm, Russia); Chidozie Awaziem (Nantes FC, France); William Ekong (Bursaspor FC, Turkey); Leon Balogun (FSV Mainz 05, Germany); Kenneth Omeruo (Kasimpasa FC, Turkey); Stephen Eze (Lokomotiv Plovdiv, Bulgaria) Midfielders: Mikel John Obi (Tianjin Teda, China); Ogenyi Onazi (Trabzonspor FC, Turkey); Wilfred Ndidi (Leicester City, England); Oghenekaro Etebo (Las Palmas, Spain); John Ogu (Hapoel Be’er Sheva, Israel); Uche Agbo (Standard Liege, Belgium); Joel Obi (Torino FC, Italy) Forwards: Ahmed Musa (CSKA Moscow, Russia); Kelechi Iheanacho (Leicester City, England); Moses Simon (KAA Gent, Belgium); Victor Moses (Chelsea FC, England); Odion Ighalo (Changchun Yatai, China); Alex Iwobi (Arsenal FC, England); Junior Ajayi (Al Ahly, Egypt); Gabriel Okechukwu (Akwa United) To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .