The Lagos Fashion Week (#LFWNG) 2018 has released its schedule for the Lagos Fashion Week Autumn/Winter Presentation. The event has been slated for Friday, the 23rd to the 25th of March. The event which is in collaboration with Heineken Nigeria, FETS Walle, NigerianExportt Promotion Council (NEPC), Garment Care and Style House Files (SHF). #LFWNG will also launch Fashion Focus Fund x Fets Wallet to support emerging designers. Lagos Fashion Week 2018 – Schedule The A/W presentations, which was introduced last year, speaks to African designers who are already creating collections for both traditional fashion seasons of Spring/Summer and Autumn/Winter and are seeking a global audience and customer base. It also speaks to Lagos Fashion Week’s commitment to catalysing the African Fashion industry ecosystem and providing greater avenues for commercial success for designers based on the continent. The venue for the A/W presentations is The Wings – Oando, the event centre equally as dedicated to thriving commerce as is it to indigenous culture and art with the awareness to create aesthetically and consciously stimulating experiences for their esteemed tenants and guests. This year’s presentation will take an intimate salon-style format, the collection showcase will be followed by a client-designer reception adopting the ‘see now, buy now’ model that allows clients shop or order straight from presentations. The Fashion Focus Fund, powered by Fets Wallet will provide business mentoring and a cash grant of N5, 000,000 (Five Million Naira) to support the Fashion Focus finalist who best presents their business strategy for the year. Read More: Countdown To The “Lagos Fashion Week” Autumn/Winter Presentation The Presentation series is entitled ‘Seasons’  – an ode to the metamorphosis of the African fashion industry, the emerging talents, key industry purveyors, the systems and structures, required to lead it to its promise land – a robust industry gravely impacting lives and the African economic landscape. The event will hold at The Wings – Oando.