 President Muhammadu Buhari deplanes at Kano airport during a recent visit to the state. PHOTO: TOLANI ALI  But not a few of those who are befuddled by their devotion to Buhari sniggered at Soyinka’s position  as  another instance of the dramatist over-dramatising   the perceived failings of his president. But those who did not share Soyinka’s prescience and thus did not appreciate the horrendous developments that validated his position can no longer ignore what has happened since that grim verdict. Indeed, we have all been confronted with subsequent stark developments that have been triggered by the administration of Buhari  which show that  Soyinka’s position remains unimpeachable . In this regard, what strongly alerts us in recent times to a president who is in a trance is Buhari’s declaration when he visited Benue on Monday that he just learnt that his Inspector-General of Police Ibrahim Idris defied his order to relocate to the state to stop the killings by Fulani herdsmen and restore hope to a much-traumatised people. When the IGP violated the directive of the president, it was a shocking development that  gripped  the public  consciousness.  It provoked so much outrage from the citizens who saw in it a clear indication of the president not being in charge of his government. Read More: Buhari dares  Senate, vetoes electoral bill Some also considered it as a measure of the president’s double talk and  complicity  in the ordeal being inflicted by herdsmen. For, the president was not outraged  at  the insubordination of his chief security officer. Thus,  after  the presidential directive was given and violated, some citizens  did not rule out the possibility of  Buhari and Idris withdrawing into  an inner chamber of Aso Rock to gleefully take  count of the  losses of the victims of herdsmen with the macabre  expectation  of  a rising death toll. Even the state Governor Samuel Ortom raised the alarm that the IGP did not relocate to Benue as directed by the president. He only stayed  one day and left for Nasarawa State  even though his own security personnel were also being killed by herdsmen. This violation was a major news item in the media. And since then, the IGP and the governor who ought to be rallying points for cohesion  in Benue have become sworn enemies.  The IGP once deployed a proxy to   prosecute his battle  against the governor. In the IGP’s estimation, the proxy acquitted himself creditably when he dismissed Ortom as a drowning man.  But the IGP  wanted to drive home the  disdain he has for Ortom and his likes when he  used the occasion of the northern stakeholders’ security summit to declare that state governors should not make laws against open grazing until they established ranches. Yet, two months after the president gave his relocation order to Idris, he declared unabashedly that  he was not aware  that his chief security officer defied him. We are thus faced with the challenge of unravelling how the reality of the president is defined.  What is the president aware of?  How does he know what is happening in the nation he is presiding over? Does he get information himself or is he solely  fed information? While the president was in Taraba recently to condole with the state over the killings by herdsmen, he boasted that he had several ways of getting information. Yes, as the president, he does not need to be physically present to know what happens in any part of the country.  But in the light of what he said in Benue, there is the need to find out the kind of information he gets and how this comes to him. Going by his comment, it is not far-fetched to say that he is oblivious of reality in the country. We have a president whose head is in the clouds.   His reality is not that of the citizens True, as the president, his reality should be defined by the information he gets from his aides and security operatives across the country. But the tragedy is that such reality that is presented to the president is tweaked   in favour of the parochialism of those  around him. These have been identified as the cabal that wields the levers of power in Aso Rock instead of the president. We are confronted with the danger of a  president  who apparently does not verify information that is given to him. Yes, he is given executive briefs.   Does he read them  himself or is his case  like   that  of United States President Donald Trump   whose executive briefs are reportedly  read to him  because of his  limited attention span ? Does the president on his own bother to read newspapers or  listen to the news on television or radio to get acquainted with what is happening in the country?  Yes, Buhari’s media handlers have at different times circulated photographs of the president listening to the news on television. But if he really does this, to what extent does  this help him to  appreciate  reality?  Or are there some special channels that tell the  president what his handlers want him to hear, thereby cutting him from reality? We must note the very tragic situation in  Benue. Over 73 lives were lost. And more have died since then. In other climes, the president would have gone there immediately he learnt of the tragedy that befell his people in a bid to be personally involved in efforts to rescue them, offer  the victims  hope and roll out measures to avert its recurrence. If the president did not  grasp  the significance of going  to Benue  and he did not know until about two months later that Idris disobeyed his directive, why do we expect him  to take interest in lesser matters that affect the citizens? How would him know that the man on the street is facing hardship  spawned by the absence  of  a deft economic management? It is simply because Buhari has apparently handed over the reins of his government to the cabal that the inanities that shock right-thinking  patriots have become regular features of his administration. In this regard, we should not be shocked later when Buhari declares that he was never aware that his   administration defied  court  orders leading to  the  continued detention of  former National Security Adviser Sambo Dasuki and Shiites leader Ibraheem  El-zakzaky  even though courts ruled that they should be allowed to go home  while  facing their prosecution. A major charge against former President Goodluck Jonathan is that he was never in charge of his government. He was never in control of his aides. This was why they were on fiscal rampage, looting the treasury ruthlessly. But now Buhari himself has given room to the suspicion that that atmosphere of corruption under Jonathan is now being replicated under the current government. Since Buhari’s aides do not allow him to   appreciate reality in all its ramifications, he needs to interact with the citizens in order for him to know the truth about them. But even here there is the danger that he may not still be allowed to confront reality. For what may happen is that his aides may arrange his party supporters and other people to tell and show the president what the officials think he  should hear and see. Those who would speak would not be so pained like Ortom and his people that in the course of purging themselves of their suffering, they would speak the truth with aplomb. There is the further danger that the president may not even be allowed to meet with those who could tell him the truth. He would rather be holed up in a government house by state officials who do not tell their own people the truth. Worse, Buhari still has almost a year to subject  the citizens to his perverted version  of reality  . And for those who are bent on bringing him back, they have another four years after May, 2019 to   be racked with the perils of this reality. The choice is theirs. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .