Green tea might just be the healthiest beverage on the planet. It is packed with antioxidants and nutrients that have serious positive effects on the human body. Here are some of the benefits of green tea that have been proven by research. Green Tea. Photo Credit_ HealthyWomen In this area, studies have shown that green tea contains 10 beta-blocking compounds, seven calcium channel blockers and 16 diuretic compounds. These compounds help prevent many of the risk factors for heart disease such as high blood pressure and cholesterol level. It also has more ACE-inhibiting properties than most plant foods which helps increase the amount of blood the heart pumps and lowers blood pressure. University of Hong Kong researchers published a study in the August, 2009 Journal of Agricultural and Food Chemistry about green tea and bone health. When the bone cells of rats were exposed to green tea catechins, EGC in particular stimulated an enzyme that promotes bone growth by 79 percent. The catechins also increased bone mineralisation and weakened the activity of cells that reabsorb bone rather than form it. In 2007, Salk Institute researchers discovered that the flavonoid epicatechin, found in cocoa, grapes and green tea, improved memory ability in mice. They also discovered that epicatechin seemed to promote blood vessel growth in the brain. King’s College researchers also found in 2009 that epicatechin may protect brain cells through mechanisms unrelated to its antioxidant ability, as epicatechin is one of the few flavonoids that can cross the blood-brain barrier. The King’s College researchers reported that somehow epicatechin protects brain cells from the negative effects of beta-amyloid plaques. Certain studies indicate that consumption of flavan-3-ols and/or anthocyanidins found in green tea may improve glycemic control and help normalize blood sugar levels. Also, due to its anti-inflammatory properties, green tea is believed to be beneficial for those who are at-risk or diagnosed with type 2 diabetes. Green tea’s catechins, especially EGCG, seems to have anti-obesity and antidiabetic effects.