 President Muhammadu Buhari  According to him, the refusal by Buhari dashed the hopes of about 150,000 young unemployed Nigerians.Also, he affirmed that there is acute shortage of police personnel in the nation as only 370,000 police watch over the security of about 186 million Nigerian populace, lamenting that it is far below best global practices.He said: “I do not see the PCN as duplicating the function of any existing security outfit, but rather meeting a unique societal need. “The fund needed to run the PCN does not have to come from the purse of the Federal Government. Persons who require the services of these officers will pay specified sum to a designated account from which their salaries will be drawn monthly.” In another development, National Patron, Grassroots Mobilisers for Buhari (GMB), Dr. Haladu Mohammed, has urged Nigerian youths to support President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration towards enthroning sustainable peace for sound educational system in the country.He stressed the need for the country to unite towards building a better Nigeria where education and security of lives and property will be prioritised for the common good of the people. Haladu stated this in Jos while receiving an honorary doctorate degree and Change Ambassador for Peace and Humanity (CAPH) awards from Yeshua School of Theology, United Kingdom and Youth Empowerment and Leadership Initiative (YELI), Jos. In a related vein, the South-West Co-ordinator of Atiku Presidential Campaign Team (APCT), Adewumi Abiola, has said that former Vice President Atiku Abubakar remains the only People’s Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirant with effective content and political will to tackle myriad of social and economic problems plaguing the nation. He, therefore, appealed to youths, political stakeholders across party divides, women and most especially the electorate, to muster their support for the actualisation of Abubakar’s presidential ambition on the platform of the PDP in 2019 general elections. Abiola, who spoke in Osogbo, Osun State capital, during the launch of the youth wing of the PDP in support of Atiku’s presidential ambition, said the nation needs a vibrant, visionary, committed and experienced hand to bail the country out of its current challenges. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .