Super Eagles. PHOTO: PIUS UTOMI EKPEI / AFP • Duo unveiled as Bigmoney scratch card ambassadors
• Team begins training tomorrow Former Super Eagles stars, Daniel Amokachi and Julius Aghahowa believe the current team preparing for the Russia 2018 World Cup has a better potential to excel at the competition than the 1994 set. Speaking at the lunching of Bigmoney scratch and win promo to Russia 2018 World Cup in Lagos at the weekend, Amokachi and Aghahowa, who were unveiled as brand ambassadors of the promo, said because of better support from the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) and corporate bodies ahead of the competition, the current team has a clear chance to excel in Russia. They added that the Eagles has acquired a new zeal and winning sprit since Gernot Rohr took charge of the team. Amokachi advised Rohr to use the Serbia and Poland friendlies to blend and test all the players for the World Cup, saying that raising a solid team early would give the Eagles more advantage at the Mundial. Amokachi, who once played for Everton of England, said he decided to be part of the big money entertainment project to help improve the standard of living of Nigerians and also contribute his quota by ensuring that more Nigerians are in Russia to support the Super Eagles. He explained that the scratch and win promo enables customers to win cash worth N1 million and also a trip to the Russia World Cup with just N100, adding that 20 per cent of the money realised from the promo would be used to build football pitches across the country. “The Bigmoney entertainment scratch and win promo gives Nigerians the chance to win as much as N1 million. With just N100 a customer can also scratch and win a trip to Russia World Cup. I support this promo because I believe the present Eagles squad has the potential to excel in the competition based on their level of commitment and team spirit. “To ensure that my integrity as a Nigerian former international is intact, anyone that scratches and wins money from N200, 000 or wins a trip to Russia World Cup would be unveiled on a live show to show the world that the promo is real. The level of patronage of Nigerians in the promo would determine the number of people that would be sponsored to Russia,” he said. Read More: Argentina, Croatia, Iceland still ranked higher than Nigeria by FIFA Also speaking at the event, Aghahowa praised the current Eagles for their excellent performance at the African qualifiers for the 2018 World Cup, adding that the scratch and win promo would afford more Nigerians the opportunity to support the Eagles live in Russia. “The current Eagles can be better than the 1994 set because of the process of their qualification for the World Cup. The players are committed and young. All the support in terms of settling of match bonuses and other allowances is no longer issues at this point. One aspect that excites me in the team is their consistence and diehard attitude when prosecuting any game,” he said. Meanwhile, Super Eagles Media Officer, Toyin Ibitoye has confirmed to The Guardian that Coach Salisu Yusuf, Eagles goaltender, Ikechukwu Ezinwa and other officials left the country to Poland yesterday for this week’s international friendly game against Poland. According to him, the foreign-based players will join the team as camp today. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .