 Uche Nwosu  Meanwhile, seven others shunned the meeting, with member representing Aboh Mbaise State constituency, Chief Mike Iheanetu, castigating the endorsement, which he described as undemocratic and outside the mandate given to members to carry out. Briefing journalists on the outcome of the meeting Friday at his residence in Owerri, the member representing Oguta and the Director General of the movement, Ugwumba Mandate Worldwide, Henry Uzoma  Ezediaro,  noted that the seven lawmakers, who could not attend, were at their liberty to explain their position, adding that he was mindful of mentioning those who endorsed Nwosu. He listed the names of the endorsers as the Speaker of the house, Acho Ihim, former Majority Leader of the House and member representing Owerri Constituency, Lugard Osuji,  Chukwuemeka Loyiud (Owerri  North),  Innocent Arthur Egwim (Ideator  North),  Obinna  Egu  (Ngor  Okpala),  Mrs. Ngozi  Obiefule  (Isu) and Uju Onwudiwe (Njaba). Others he disclosed are Mrs.  Uche Ejiogu (Ihitteuboma),  Victor Onyewuchi (Owerri  West), Uche  Agabiga (Orsu),  Emma Orie  (Ohaji /Egbema),  Ikechukwu  Amuka (Ideato  South): himself,  Ezediaro (Oguta),  Lawman Duruji  (Ehime Mbano) and Marcel Odunze (Orlu). Those who participated but were late to the meeting, according to Ezidiaro, are Chinedu Offor (Onuimo) and Chika Madumere, who represent Nkwere constituency and Kennedy Ibe (Obowo). “We have about two third majority of house members, who signed it and willing to address the press that they are in support of the project. All the people of Imo State are fully represented.  I think that time is now.” Speaking on the gravity of mentioning the names of the lawmakers involved, Ezediaro,  said, “Do you know what it means to address you to say an honourable member signed or said what he did not say? “ “Having been elected and have been given the power and mabdate to speak for your people. After four years, the power seizes. All these 20 lawmakers I mentioned have led their people to tell the governor that they have endorsed Uche Nwosu. “ On the issue of those who did not attend the meeting, Ezediaro said, “The seven of them who were not in that meeting, we cannot conclude that they were not part of the endorsement.  They better answer for themselves; I’m sure none of them will come and refute what I have said.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .