Vice chancellor, Adekunle Ajasin University Akungba, Prof. Igbekele Ajibefun (middle) with other principal officers in a group photograph with the Chairman of Ondo State Oil Producing Areas and Development Commission (OSOPADEC), Gbenga Edema during a courtesy visit to the institution The new Pro Chancellor and Chairman of the Governing Council of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba (AAUA), Dr. Tunji Abayomi, has assured of his readiness to work for the promotion of academics and research in the institution. Abayomi also pledged to mobilise the individual and collective strengths of council members to add value to the university. He spoke shortly after the inauguration of the council by the Governor of Ondo State and Visitor to the university, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN) at the International Event and Cultural Centre, Akure. While acknowledging the challenge of funding, Dr. Abayomi said he would mobilise other members to explore and attract alternative sources of income to the institution. These, according to him, include sponsorships, endowments, grants and honorary ambassadorships, among others. He assured that the council under him would be fair, courageous and just in addressing issues. “Our ambition is to raise the university to international standard in terms of academic and research. That is our major objective. We intend to build a university that every graduating student will feel very proud of. That’s what we intend to do. We know there are various sources of funding for universities worldwide, but unfortunately, many are not taking advantage of. There are lots of individuals who have foundations, give grants and endowments and so on. And we are going to have honorary ambassadors to help galvanise funding for our university.” In his remarks, the vice chancellor, Prof. Igbekele Ajibefun commended the new council and expressed hope of better days ahead. He noted that the council is made up of accomplished technocrats and academics who have made their marks in their chosen fields.
He added that the university community is looking forward to a fruitful tenure with the new council members as the driving force. Members of the council include Prof. Wole Akeredolu; Dupe Adetuwo; Wale Gbakinro; Tosho Ale; Sam Erejuwa; as well as the Special Adviser on Education; and Commissioner for Finance. Others are Commissioner for Economic Planning; Education, Science and Technology, Remi Osiberu; Mrs. Ibim Semenitari; Dr. Ibrahim Eneye; and Dr. Emmanuel Onyeama. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .