 Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa  “Pa Gomez’s life should be an inspiration to all lawyers, on ethics, love for the profession and the common good. There is no way we can separate law and its practice, from the society. In this regard therefore, a true legal practitioner is the one who deploys knowledge for the advancement of the cause of his society,” he stated. Adegboruwa stated this in a speech titled: ‘All lawyers are activists’ at a symposium organised by the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Lagos branch, to mark the 90th birthday anniversary of Pa Gomez, in Lagos. Speaking on the principle of the nonagenarian lawyer, Adegboruwa described him as equal to the first indigenous lawyer in the country, Mr. Christopher Alexander Sapara Williams, who was called to the English Bar on November 17, 1879 and contributed to the advancement of the people. He praised Pa Gomez, whose principle in life is summarized in the phrase: ‘it is a matter of conscience’. He also urged lawyers to x-ray all contestants to the various offices in the NBA by their pedigree and vote in genuine activists, remembering the times of Chief Alao Aka-Bashorun, Chief Wole Olanipekun, SAN, Olisa Agbakoba, SAN, Chief Priscilla Kuye, Augustine Alegeh, SAN among others. Adegboruwa, also called on the bench to embrace judicial activism, as was done by the Hon. Justice Bairaman in the landmark case of Madukolu v Nkemdilim, where he laid down the golden principles guiding jurisdiction, without citing a single authority and precedence. “Our noble lords and judicial officers must be pro-active to interpret our laws in favour of the rights of the people, as was done by Lord Denning, Honourable Justices Kayode Eso, Chukwudifu Oputa, Samson Uwaifo,” he declared. The right activist also used the opportunity to commend the Chairman and members of the NBA, Ikeja Branch, for the courageous protest embarked upon on last Monday. He said: “we need more of such from lawyers, to speak truth to power.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .