 The Managing Director, NAOC, Mr Massimo Insulla, represented by the Stakeholders Management and Community Development Division Manager,  Dennis Masi, General Manager External Relations, Oando, Kofo Tunji-Olagunju, Paramount Ruler, Tuomo community, Chief Opokumo Emokpo, Woman leader, Tumo community, Mrs. Maria Oruke and community Relations Manager, Oando, Chief Sam Onyenwe, during the commissioning of corpers’ lodge built by NAOC JV in Tuomo community, Burutu L GA, Delta State.  Speaking during the commissioning of the project, which was attended by hundreds of elated Tuomo community indigenes, the Managing Director of NAOC, Mr. Massimo Insulla, said the  lodge was the company’s response to the need of the community as expressed in the Quick impact Memorandum of Understanding between NAOC/JV Partners and the Community. Insulla, represented by the Stakeholders Management and Community Development Division Manager of the Company, Mr. Dennis Masi, noted that the project would go a long way to address the accommodation challenges faced by corp members posted to the community. He urged the corps members and the people of Tuomo community to reciprocate the gesture by ensuring that it is properly maintained.The Managing Director however, commended the Joint Venture Partners, NNPC and Oando for continuously supporting NAOC in the implementation of developmental infrastructures within its areas of operation. In his address, the Chief Executive Officer of Oando Energy Resources, Mr. Pade Durotoye, lauded the community for their continuous support, assuring that the company will continue to provide more social projects and programmes that will promote community development within its area of operations. Durotoye who was represented by the General Manager External Relations, Mr. Kofo Tunji-Olagunju, said, the positive socio-economic benefits the corps members bring to Tuomo community spurred Oando’s support for the building of the lodge . Earlier, the Chairman of Tuomo Community Development Committee, Mr. Ozidi Seaman, said the community was very grateful to NAOC and its JV partners for the construction and completion of the  lodge,noting that  the project will encourage corps members posted to the area to stay and contribute to the educational development of the community. Also in his remarks, the Amananaowei of Tuomo community, Chief Opokumo Emokpor, expressed joy over the project and commended NAOC and its JV ventures for partnering with the community to bring development. The lodge consists of nine fully furnished self-contain rooms, a fully furnished lounge, a kitchenette, a mini water scheme and a perimeter fence to provide security. Present at the occasion were the Head, External Relations, Oando,  Mr Yemi Oreagba, Manager, Corporate Communication Oando, Miss Obehi Ojeaga, Deputy Manager Infrastructure, Estate Maintenance and Engineering of NAOC, Mrs. Naina Osima and a former member of Bendel State House of Assembly and a Community leader, Hon. Prince O. Johnny. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .