Motorists wait in a traffic jam under banners bearing a portrait of Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari, who is on official visit to Lagos, on March 29, 2018. Nigeria’s economic capital Lagos was on a lockdown on March 29, 2018, as Buhari makes his first official visit to the city of 22 million inhabitants since coming to power in 2015. / AFP PHOTO / PIUS UTOMI EKPEI So you people want to embarrass our Parosident with your silly N350, 000 Twitter Challenge, abi? Were you in Jupiter when Madam Sprin Sprin explained what N7 trillion was used for? Of course not, the spirit of I-too-know and we-no-go-gree won’t allow you listen to her analysis. Because of this, you will never know how the money was spent. Not her fault, biko. Oga wants to come and shine in Lasgidi you are screaming why? Enemies of progress. You do not want him to commission a world-class bus terminus. Is it that you do not want the plaque to read “commissioned by Oga at the top”? You people contributed N350,000 as raffle money to give anyone who will say what Oga has done since he entered the office. At least, he started and completed the commissioning. Harshen magana! We don’t need the money, thank you. The higgedly piggedly affairs of the country he has been performing, is it not work? We said trek to work or stay to hail the owner of the country, you said you have work to do as if collecting N3, 000 to perform hailing duties is not awoof. Even those that trekked for him before are talking. You do not know how to keep faith at all. How about the Dapchi girls that disappeared and appeared with a Boko Haram entourage just after a month? The wedding receptions Oga has been attending, is not work? A prophet is not appreciated at home, we know. But our kinsmen from America even created a new award to honour our Parosident. But haters are determined to not see its importance. The number of unemployed youths that gather to welcome Oga in different states across the country speaks for us. The Senate that is settling the “who wan kill who” wahala, are they not working? How much is it N350,000 sef? Small money that the winner of the Senate sleeping competition can donate. Leave us alone and go for TGIF