Super Eagles team captain, John Obi Mikel carried shoulder-high by his teammates after the team qualified for Russia 2018 World Cup. Coach Gernot Rohr says it is their dream to lift the trophy • It Was Emotional Presenting Trophy To Buhari – Polymenakos
Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr says his team is working hard to realise their dream of lifting the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia. Rohr spoke yesterday, when the FIFA World Cup Trophy Tour arrived in Lagos. He said: “every team going to the World Cup in Russia has a dream of winning it. But to be realistic, we believe in our dream and we are working so hard to achieve it.” The Managing Director Nigerian Bottling Company Limited, George Polymenakos said he felt so emotional while presenting the World Cup trophy to President Muhammadu Buhari in Abuja three days ago. But it will be more emotional for me to see the Super Eagles lift the World Cup in Russia,” he said. We, at the Nigerian Bottling Company, Coca-Cola’s Bottling partner in Nigeria, are very pleased to welcome the FIFA World Cup Trophy Tour to Nigeria. This is the third time it touches the Nigerian soil. We felicitate with the entire Nigerian football family, which we believe is already bussing with happiness. It is our delight to have this unique opportunity to connect with our consumers through their passion point and make them happy with the World Cup Trophy Tour experience. I wish the Nigerian Super Eagles would find sufficient inspiration in this FIFA World Cup Trophy Tour to win this year’s competition. The World Cup trophy will touch 91 cities and 51 countries. Also speaking yesterday, NFF President, Amaju Pinnick thanked Coca-Cola for bringing the trophy to Lagos saying: “Anything that comes to Lagos come with history.” Pinnick, who was accompanied by NFF First and Second Vice President, Seyi Akinwunmi and Shehu Dikko, promised that the federation would do everything within its limit to give the Super Eagles the best preparation they need to excel at the World Cup. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .