International Women’s Day and Mother’s Day are not only a celebration, but also appreciation of their various roles in society and contributions to development. One of the most recognized being that of Motherhood. While international Womens Day celebrates women in their various stages of life and roles, Mother’s Day is chosen to recognize the singular role of Motherhood, maternal bonds, honoring the influence of mothers in society and as matriachs of their familes.
The International Mother’s Day is celebrated on various dates in many parts of the world usually in the months of March or May. Mother’s Day Flowers
With Mother’s Day here it’s time to think of Mother’ Day flowers and if you are not sure which flowers to give we’ve decided to help out with a look at some traditional picks and some not so traditional with their meaning or symbolism. Carnations were first made part of Mother’s Day tradition by Mother’s Day founder, Anna Jarvis in 1907 during the first Mother’s Day memorial service. Carnations signify purity, faith, love, beauty and charity, they are the most gifted at mother’s Day, with pink carnations having the most significance. Roses-if your mother is traditional, roses might be an option for her. The rose may be the most given Mother’s Day flower after carnations. Red roses are traditionally associated with romantic love while lighter red or deep pink color denotes gratitude and appreciation. Yellow roses are believed to represent a caring nature while white are associated with purity and brightness. Tulips are perfect choice if your mum is light-hearted and easy-going. Tulips represent comfort, coziness and above all happiness. Yellow tulips symbolize “the’s sunshine in your smile”. White symbolizes heaven and purity and pink tulips means affection and caring. Lilies-Beloved by many mothers, lilies come in a number of colrs and varieties. Calla lilies stand for beauty. Lily of the valley convey humility and devotion. White lilies symbolize virtue and purity while pink represents friendship and prosperity. The day liliy is a Chinese symbol for motherhood. Daisies-Gerbera Daisies symbolize innocence, purity and beauty and also cheerfulness. If your mum radiates happiness, gerbera daisies are a perfect pick for her bouquet. Orchids– represent love, luxury, beauty and strength. The orchid is also the Chinese symbol for “many children”. In ancient Greece women believed that if the father of their unborn child ate large, new orchid tubers, the baby will be a boy. If the mother ate small orchid tubers she would give birth to a girl.
One may equally choose other flowers or plants not necessarily traditional, but it’s her favorite . You can give potted houseplants : Aloe Vera which is an attractive succulent and valuable medicinal plant. Or what say you to other live plant s such as flowering dwarf hibiscus, lucky bamboo, ‘Angel Wing’ Caladium, a fairy garden of succulent and cacti?

Thank your Mum for her unconditional love and support with her favorite Mother’s Day bouquet. If Mum has a green thumb- consider sending her a long-lasting plant that she can enjoy inside or outside the home. Happy Mother’s Day!  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .