 Malaria research center. Photo: Development Diaries  Through this agreement DCL will market the Parasight Platform in the Nigerian diagnostics market, adding to DCL’s extensive infectious disease diagnostics portfolio in the country. Speaking at a workshop on the introduction of the revolutionary malaria diagnostic machine in Abuja, Chairman, DCL Group, Mr. Charles Anyanwu, said the collaboration is aligned with firm’s purpose of advancing the world of health by bringing technology solutions for malaria diagnosis to West Africa. He said: “I am confident that this strategic collaboration equips us better than ever before in disease diagnostics and will catalyse DCL’s role in reducing the West African malaria burden.” “The SightDX Parasight Malaria Detection Platform uses ground-breaking computer vision technology to analyse blood samples for malarial parasites. “The state-of-the-art technology combines innovative software algorithms, specialized optics, and a new sample preparation method, allowing patient samples to be prepared quickly, easily and reliably.” Anyanwu added that instrument automatically analyses the sample and provides a diagnostic result within only four minutes.  He noted device also provides information on the species of the infecting malarial parasites and provides information that may be used by clinicians to aid in determining the severity of the illness. According to him, the diagnostic information is displayed on the instrument’s screen and integrates into the facility’s lab information management system. He assured that platform has undergone field-testing at a number of international laboratories, during which it demonstrated a high degree of sensitivity and specificity even at very low levels of infection. In his remarks, the Minister of Health, Prof. Isac Adewole described the machine as innovative, while adding that it is going to make the diagnosis of malaria in Nigeria easier. The minister who was represented by the Coordinator, National Malaria Elimination Programme, Dr. Audu Bala, explained that the device will also help to eliminate the inaccuracy of the diagnosis of malaria that the country has been experiencing over time. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .