Director-General of the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) Dr Isa Pantami PHOTO: TWITTER NITDA NIGERIA The National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) has cleared a number of information and communication technology (ICT) Security and Systems Infrastructure Upgrade projects of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). This is coming through the agency’s commitment as government’s clearinghouse for all information technology (IT) procurement and services in the public sector. The projects include Enterprise Network Security, a gateway security project aimed at upgrading the bank’s network security appliances and ensures that they are available and provides comprehensive real-time protection against advanced threats. NITDA also cleared the intelligence security operations centre project aimed at providing a dedicated centre, technology and team for continuous monitoring of the bank’s network to prevent, detect and deal with cyber attacks. A statement from NITDA yesterday, also showed that it assisted the CBN to implement a Network Access Control (NAC) Solution, a security approach designed to restrict the availability of network resources to endpoint devices. This is aimed at enhancing infrastructure security, as well as limit potential effects from emerging security threats. The Identity and Access Management Solution project targeted at ensuring that the right persons access the right resources and applications at the right time and for the right reasons. NITDA’s Director General and CEO, Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, alerted the country to the cyber attacks it would likely experience. These attacks are targeted at banks, health and other systems, power and transportation systems, as well as other critical national infrastructure. The CBN, in its efforts to mitigate the threats, especially in the country’s financial institutions, initiated the implementation of the projects. Pantami, in his clearance letter, commended the CBN for the proactive manner in which it handled the threats and restated its continued support for initiatives aimed at ensuring that the country’s cyberspace was safe and secure. President Muhammadu Buhari, had during last year’s e-Nigeria International Conference and Exhibition, called for strict compliance to the IT Project’s Clearance directive by all government establishments. He also commended the agency’s efforts at enforcing Federal Government’s directive on ensuring that all ICT projects were cleared before being implemented. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .