Executive Chairman, Lagos State Sports Commission, Dr. Kweku Tandoh; winner of men’s event, Egypt’s Karim El Hammany and Chairman, Local Organising Committee, Sanya Akindele, at the prize presentation at the end of this year’s Lagos International Squash Classic … at the weekend. Egypt’s Karim El Hammamy and Salma Youssef emerged winners in the men and women’s categories of this year’s Lagos International Squash Classics, which ended at the weekend at the Teslim Balogun Stadium, Surulere. El Hammamy walloped compatriot, Ahmed Hosny 3-0 in what looked like a no-contest, while Youssef humbled also Egypt’s Menna Nasser in an exciting game, where Nasser developed an injury. In the under-19 girls’ cadre, Rofiat Abdulazeez defeated Busayo Olatunji 3-0, while Onaopemipo Adegoke beat Desmond Iguodala
3-1. For their efforts, El Hammamy and Youssef won for themselves money prizes of $15,000, and $5000 respectively. Speaking on her victory, Youssef said the game plan she had worked for her in the game against her opponent, who was also her friend “I am so glad that I won today because I played against a friend. It was really a tough match and I am so happy that I triumphed at the end of the day. I had a game plan and made sure that I concentrated on it and it worked for me,” she said. Nasser, who was the fans’ favourite but sustained an injury in the final, said the injury prevented her from giving her best. “I struggled with my injury trying to get my fitness so that I could back into the game, but unfortunately I could not. However, I want to thank the fans for their support. At this tournament, the Nigerian fans are so nice and friendly people,” she stated. Giving his overview of the competition, the Executive Chairman of Lagos State Sports Commission, Dr. Kweku Tandoh said he was satisfied with everything the classic offers the youths in the state. “Governor Akinwunmi Ambode is passionate about this tournament, which serves as a platform for the state’s athletes to develop and expose themselves to international competitions. The under-19 event is also a good developmental programme for the youngsters to harness and develop their talents,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .