 The proposed Giuliano De Medici apartments in Banana lsland, Lagos  Essentially, the ground floor of three floor apartment has a total area of 105  square metres with three car park spots, while the first floor has a total  of 135 square metres and 68 square metres terrace.The second floor occupies a total area of 125 square metres, the third floor is made up of a total area of 138 square metres, while the first floor of the pent house occupy a total of 450 square metres and the second floor at 400 square metres total area. Chief Executive Officer of Sujimoto Nigeria, Mr. Sijibomi Ogundele, who spoke at the private briefing and viewing of the Giuliano project, said it was conceived to meet the luxury needs of Nigerians. He said that Banana Island has one of the highest occupancy rates in Nigeria with 81 per cent of the luxury houses occupied. Ogundele stressed that the event is meant to introduce the in depth knowledge of the project, the luxury aspect and the story behind it.He said: “For the first time in Nigeria, we are rewarding the trust our customers reposed in us with a five-year warranty on all finishing materials appliances. “One of the Giuliano’s biggest selling point is the master bathroom, not only because of its enormous size or that each comes with a TV , but because the sanitary wares by Porscelanosa are designed by  Zaha Hadid, one of the best architects in the world. “In designing the Giuliano, we went around Ikoyi and banana island, we toured the best terraces and apartments, looking for standards to set and records to beat.
“Aside from the exceptional quality of features and facilities, no drop of paint will be on the Giuliano. The whole exterior will be clad in a special Spanish stone – a new generation high quality façade to give it a luxury feel, the same façade that was used for Baba Ijebu’s house, which is regarded as the most expensive house in Nigeria”, he said. Describing it as an affordable luxury, Ogundele said, prospective clients and investors will be paying lesser in terms of choice and what is in the market as it is relatively  more cheaper than what competitors are offering with an off-plan sale.Prospective buyers  can pay 40 per cent deposits and spread the remaining balance over 10 months with 19 per cent return of investment and equity of nine per cent The strategy is to ease payment, with a minimum deposits and the remaining spread between 10 months. The concept of the project is to bring design that is of international standard and that can stand the test of time. On why the company is venturing into the project, Ogundele said “Nigeria market  respond to quality and good price, when you deliver quality thing, people will buy. We are known for quality, good price and we keep our promises. “More over investors, who buy now have the advantage of buying at 40 per cent off the price, when the project is completed and will be lesser as the price for such houses, which go between N400 to N500 million against the N350 million, we are selling. On the issue of  local content, he said the firm is encouraging local content, with over 90 per cent of its staff as Nigerians but still  bring people that have enormous experience more than 40 years in luxury apartments to teach them on quality control and finishing.
  
Apart from the project, Ogundele said Sujimotor  will  embark on standard setting projects this year, which include 46 units Water front Development in Banana Island, 15-storey Ultra-Modern apartments on Queen’s Drive, Ikoyi, 30 Units projects in Banana Island and two Luxury Hotels, one in Ikoyi and the other in Maryland. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .