APC National Chairman John Odigie-Oyegun The opposition to reported extension of the tenure of the Chief John Odigie-Oyegun-led National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressive Congress (APC) continued yesterday in Edo State, as the party dismissed report of tenure elongation. It said no decision was reached at the party’s NEC meeting extending the tenure of Odigie-Oyegun. State Chairman of the party, Anselm Ojezua, at a press briefing in Benin City, yesterday, said only a motion was moved to extend the tenure of Odigie-Oyegun and others, but NEC was reminded about provisions of the party’s constitution. He emphasised that no decision was reached at NEC for tenure elongation and explained that state chairmen of the party supported it because they were beneficiaries. He noted that there was the suspicion that NWC was working to get approval for their own tenure to be extended to enable them finish whatever tasked before them, but NEC insisted that what is good for the goose is good for the gander. He said: “There must be a misconception as what decision the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the APC made. There was a motion put before NEC proposing the extension of tenure for a number of reasons, but our attention was also drawn to the constitution of the party that it does not contain any provision for extension of tenure and that should it be that there was extension, something has to be done to satisfy the constitutional provision. “There was no decision to extend tenure. A motion was passed, indicating a preference that tenure be extended, but there was the realisation that the constitution does not permit it and therefore there needed to be a further action taken on it. No decision was taken to extend tenure of the executives. “Time is still ticking. Very soon, the tenure of the executive will soon expire. The party will have to do something quickly to address the issue, because as it is currently constituted, when the tenure expires, then it is dead. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .