PHOTO: Sitippe Ke Akwa Ibom Three Nigerian clubs, Enyimba of Aba, MFM of Lagos and Akwa United of Uyo will today in different locations across the continent seek good beginnings in their CAF inter-club matches. While MFM is playing in the CAF Champions League, Enyimba and Akwa United are engaged in the Confederation with the first legs of their ties holding today. At the Agege Stadium, Lagos, MFM will host Algeria’s MC Algers in the first leg of their tie from 4.00 p.m. It is a match that will show how far the Mountain of Fire and Miracles Church team has come since it joined the elite class of Nigerian football three years ago. The team beat Real Bamako of Mali 2-1 on aggregate in the preliminary round of the competition. In Sfax, Tunisia, Akwa United are guests to Libya’s Al-Ittihad, who have been playing in the city due to the crisis in their country. A good result in today’s game will set the stage for qualification for the next round when they meet again in two weeks. Enyimba of Aba’s coach, Paul Aigbogun sees his team’s opponents, Energie of Benin Republic as a ‘Cinderella’ team to be feared when they meet in Cotonou today. The Beninese side recorded one of the upsets of the preliminary round by eliminating three -time African champions, Hafia of Guinea, after a 1-1 draw in the return leg in Conakry earned them passage 2-1 on aggregate. “We were looking at the possibility of playing Hafia of Guinea in the first round but it’s interesting how Energie came through from the preliminary round and that means they are a good side that should not be underrated,” Aigbogun told CAFOnline.com yesterday. “The good thing is that we (Enyimba) are doing well in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) and we can take such good form to the continent. Our preparation towards the game against Energie is well on course. “I wouldn’t want to single out any player as the star man; we want to go all out and show the quality we have. We are working really hard to make good impression this time and I believe the players are ready to do their best too”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .