In this article, we are taking a look at six billionaires that started from a humble beginning. Get motivated and if they can do it, you can too. 6. Oprah Winfrey (Net Worth: 1.05 Trillion Naira)
Oprah, for one episode of her show, gifted every audience member a car, her generosity might be due to the fact the media mogul was born to a poor single mother, and all her life, she’s understood what it meant to need. In her early teens she was raped and molested, and when she was 14 years old, she gave birth to a child that died in infancy. Read More: Hate speech offenders to die by hanging in Senate’s new bill Her path to success started with her love for public speaking and debate. She landed a job at a radio station which subsequently led to the Oprah Winfrey Show. Today, she is an actress, producer, activist, entrepreneur and one of the most influential women in the world. Oprah Winfrey, American media mogul, talk show host, actress and philanthropist. Photo credit: Pinterest 9. John Paul Dejoria (Net Worth: 1.08 Trillion Naira)
He was one of the two founders of John Paul Mitchell, a hair product company. Dejoria was, at some point in his life, homeless. He struggled with all kinds of odd jobs just to feed himself from janitor to gas station attendant. Then he met his business partner, Paul Mitchell, and they both started their company together.  John Paul Dejoria. Photo credit: YTIMG.  4. Ralph Lauren (Net Worth: 2.02 Trillion Naira)
Lauren was born in the Bronx to Jewish immigrants. He served in the army before leaving to become an associate in a tie company. After designing ties for other brands, he started his own company, Ralph Lauren. The company has gone to become one of the most successful and recognisable fashion brands in the world. Ralph Lauren. Photo credit: Vogue. 3. Roman Abramovich (Net Worth: 3.07 Trillion Naira)
Today, Abramovich owns one of the most expensive jets and luxury yachts in the world but his life hasn’t always been crisp for the Chelsea FC owner. He was two years old when his parents died, and was raised by his grandparents in Russian. While still a student in 1995, he started a small company of plastic toys manufacturing. He subsequently had several oil conglomerates and pig farm. Roman Abramovich. Photo credit: busybuddiesng. 2. Francois Pinault (Net Worth: 5.34 Trillion Naira)
Pinault was born into abject poverty and was so poor that he had to drop out of school due to bullying. After dropping out, Pinault started timber trading. Read More: At breakfast forum, Nigeria’s growth narratives receive boost He subsequently started buying smaller firms and merging them into a conglomerate. Pinault is also married to Hollywood siren, Salma Hayek. Salma Hayek and Francois Pinault. Photo credit: Purepeople. 1. Leonardo Del Vecchio (Net Worth: 6.50 Trillion Naira)
Vecchio is responsible for owning and manufacturing premium sunglasses in the world, he manufactures for Ray-Ban, Bvlgari, Chanel and Armani. He started his business at the age of 23. Vecchio had to learn the hard way, his father died while his mother was still pregnant with him. He worked odd jobs until he found a job at a moulding factory. Today, he is the second richest man in history. Leonardo Del Vecchio. Photo credit: IBtimes. Read More: Reactions Trail Sex Scene Aired On BBNaija