Seek N500million compensation
Rebecca Sharibu, mother of the abducted Leah Sharibu, and others, have filed a N500million suit against the Inspector General of Police (IGP) and the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) for their alleged failure to ensure the release of her daughter. The other plaintiffs in the suit dated September 19, 2018 are Mr. Daniel David Kadzai and Lift-Up-Now Incorporation, a non-governmental organization in the United States of America. The suit was filed at the Federal High Court, Lagos and a copy was made available to newsmen yesterday in Jos, the Plateau State capital. Among the prayers being sought by the plaintiffs are an order directing and mandating the defendants to secure the immediate and unconditional release of Leah from the custody of her captors, and an order compelling the defendants to employ every means in securing her release. The plaintiffs are also seeking an order compelling the defendants to pay N500 million being compensation for the indignities and human deprivations suffered by the plaintiff as a result of the defendants’ dereliction of statutory duties in securing her release from her captors since February, 2018 till date. According to the suit, the defendants may enter appearance personally or by a legal practitioner either by filing the appropriate processes in response at the registry of the court, where the summons was issued, or by sending them to that office by any methods allowed by these rules. It added that if the defendant does not respond within the stipulated time and at the appropriate place, order will be made and proceedings may be taken as the judge may think just and expedient. In an affidavit supporting the application, the 3rd plaintiff and Executive Director of the Lift-Up-Now Incorporation, Dr. Adeniyi Ojutiku, solemnly swears that he has been informed by their lead counsel, Tayo Doughlas Esq, that it is necessary in the circumstance to seek and obtain leave of the court to issue the originating summons on the defendants.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .