 Prof. Tade Aina, PASGR Executive Director. PHOTO: NAN  Executive Director PASGR, Prof. Tade Aina, organisers of the training said the failing standard of university education in Africa, and the need for tertiary institutions in the region to meet global standard propelled the organisation to take up the challenge in addition to its on-going project of Master of Research in Public Policy (MRPP) in 13 African universities. Aina attributed the failure in African tertiary education to lack of core values. He then advanced the need for partnership and rethink on how to join hands and revive higher education in Africa. He explained that PEDAL would take into consideration the rich African wisdom and vision that are underutilised in the education system. The PASGR boss expressed optimism that in the next few years, tertiary education in Africa will gain a place of honour at the global plane, commending the Strategic Partnerships for Higher Education Innovation and Reform (SPHEIR) and the UKaid for supporting the vision, and making it real. He pointed out that the support from higher institutions regulating bodies, participating universities, and scholars coupled with the attendance of key government officials, policy makers, and university vice chancellors is a confirmation that PEDAL has come to redeem African tertiary institutions. PASGR Director of Higher Education, Dr. Beatrice Muganda revealed that the official launch is because of the success of the pilot work carried out in eight universities across Africa. “The success story from the eight universities will now be extended to all the 13 institutions where MRPP programmes are hosted, and by extension other universities in Africa.” Muganda disclosed that the launch is the beginning of a system change, as university lecturers will be trained to create a platform that would enhance effective learning process in African universities. Programme Director of SPHEIR, Dr. Pauline Ganja explained that PEDAL is aimed at catalysing systemic change in higher education, adding that it is focused on partnership to work on common goals and transform teaching in the universities. Ganja commended PASGR leadership under Aina, and expressed optimism that Muganda who is leading PEDAL will ensure the effective use of power of collaboration and delegated responsibilities. She disclosed that PEDAL is research based approved teaching method and will for now focus on social sciences and postgraduate studies.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .