Nigeria Police • Govt advises residents against self-help
• PDP condemns attack, flays Lalong’s China trip Gunmen have killed 11 persons at Lopandet Dwei community in Du District of Jos South Local Council of Plateau State. The police command, which confirmed the killing yesterday through the Public Relations Officer, DSP Terna Tyopev, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Jos that the attack was carried out on Sunday night. “Yesterday at about 8:30.p.m, we received a distress call that gunmen attacked Lopandet Dwei Du area of Jos South Local Government. We immediately mobilised to the scene. On arrival, we discovered that some people were already shot,” he said. Armed security personnel have been deployed in the area to forestall further attacks and breakdown of law and order. Tyopev, who said investigation was ongoing to arrest the perpetrators of the heinous crime, appealed to residents of the area to remain calm and law-abiding, assuring that security agencies were doing everything to secure lives and property. Governor Simon Lalong has commiserated with the people of Plateau State over the heinous attack. A statement issued by the Commissioner for Information and Communication, Mr. Yakubu Dati, yesterday said: “Members of the public are called upon to resist any temptation to self-help as these will be playing to the script of these perpetrators whose ultimate aim is to return the state to the dark era of bloodletting. “The Plateau State government has ordered the security agencies to redouble their efforts in performing their constitutional responsibility of protecting lives and property. Members of the public are further enjoined to be vigilant and report all suspicious movements to the nearest security agencies.” In its reaction, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) expressed sadness by the incident. “We condemn this continued killing of innocent Plateau people. This ugly and unwanted killings have been going on, even when we have security check-points everywhere within and outside the state capital, This has become clear that the government has abandoned its responsibility of protecting its citizens. What is the primary responsibility of government if not to protect people’s lives and property?” the party lamented in a statement by its Publicity Secretary, John Akans” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .