 Governor Umaru Tanko Al-Makura of Nassarawa State  In a statement, Director General of Strategic Communication and Press Affairs to the governor regretted that some detractors who were out to blackmail the governor in search of cheap popularity. The governor was said to be “under pressure by Aliko Dangote, Senator Abdullahi Adamu and others to impose Abdullahi Sule, who is a director with Dangote group, as the sole gubernatorial candidate of the APC in the state.” It was further claimed that Governor Almakura received N10billion from Alhaji Dangote to endorse Alhaji Abdullahi Sule. But, denying any such exchange or understanding, the Directorate of Press Affairs condemned the allegations, saying, “It is a malicious propaganda meant to gain traction and a new twist by conspirators. “We find it mind bogging that any rational person will conceive a ludicrous and fictitious propaganda.” Meanwhile, son of former Jigawa State governor, Mustapha Sule Lamido, caused s a stir after picking the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) nomination form for Jigawa Cental Senatorial district. The 35 year old Mustapha, however picked the expression of interest and nomination forms on his behalf at the PDP Headquarters, Wadata House, weekend, by the Jigawa State PDP Vice Chairman Jigawa central Zone, Alhaji Aminu Nuhu Jahun. Jahun was accompanied by the immediate past Jigawa state PDP Chairman Isah Duniya Bahutu, Chairman Campaign council Alhaji Muhammed Atini, Chairman and secretary Jigawa state PDP Consultative Forum Kabiru Nura and Abubakar Yahaya, friends and supporters. He thanked Mustapha’s supporters across the state and others who turned up at the Wadata House for the all important step in the actualisation of his ambition to represent Jigawa Central in 2019. The graduate of political Science from the University of Abuja, has also a Masters degree in International Affairs and Diplomacy from A.B.U Zaria. A leader of the G19 youth mobilizers, who was also at the event, Yau Sule said the young Lamido should not be seen as a politician, who is hiding under the shadow of his father. According to him, Lamido junior has been very close to the grassroots delivering dividends of his personal wealth to uplift the average Jigawa youth hence the G19 youth mobilisers decided to prevail on him to contest for the purpose of rescuing the youth from their deprivation and want under the current leadership. “Even while he was not an elected politician he had been reaching out to us more than those occupying positions, we would be better off if he is elected because with his youthfulness and the position he would do more for us. The former Governor of the State is one of the front liners among aspirants for the PDP ticket. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .