As Nigerians continue to commend Mr. Daniel Achi of Halogen Security Limited for displaying honesty recently at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos, his Ubulu-Uku, Delta State kinsmen at the weekend hosted him to a lavish ceremony at Victoria Garden City (VGC), Ajah, where award and cash gifts were presented to him. The event, which took place at the residence of a former top official of Chevron Oil Company and son of Ubulu land, Mr. Felix Molokwu, was put together by a socio-cultural organization known as Ubulu-Uku ’82 Club to celebrate its annual new yam festival and also honour citizens of Ubulu-Uku, who have displayed excellence or exemplary character in any sphere of life. The Halogen guard, Achi, was a major attraction at the event as his kinsmen took time to eulogize him for bringing honour to Nigeria. In his welcome address, president of the club, Chief Kevin Ofili, noted that in spite of Achi’s low income level and the austere times most Nigerians were living in, he was able to resist the temptation of criminally converting the huge amount of foreign currency and other valuables into his personal property when he picked the bag while on duty at the airport. According to Ofili, the Halogen guard, like any average Nigerian, was in a position to convert the valuables into his, particularly as the money contained in the bag would solve a lot of problems for him, but he chose the path of honour by intimating his senior colleague, Mr. Francis Emepueaku. Both of them subsequently established a link with owner of the bag. In his response, the 50-year-old Achi expressed surprise at the show of love to him by his people, as he never considered himself qualified to be so honoured by the elite group. He had thought that what he did at the airport was merely part of his duty as a security officer. He attributed what he did to God’s abiding love for him and a confirmation that the challenges he had faced over the years as a low-income earner who lost his wife during childbirth were not in vain. He used the opportunity to appreciate his employers, Halogen Security and Nigerians in general for cheering him for something he had merely considered as an obligatory part of his duty. To demonstrate their love for Achi, various sums of money were announced as individual donations to him as a way of encouraging him to remain consistent with this virtue.It will be recalled that following this exemplary act by the two Halogen guards, President Muhammadu Buhari had hailed the duo. In a statement by the president’s Special Adviser on Media and Read More: Heroic Halogen guards get N.5m scholarship awards Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, Nigerians were charged to emulate Achi and his colleague. The president noted that such conduct reflected what he described as “the new Nigeria that we all desire.”A Lagos-based medical doctor, Banji Oyegbami, was said to have gone to pick a relation and his wife returning from America at the airport on August 18, and in the process of loading their luggage into his car, the hand luggage of the returnee’s wife fell off un-noticed by any of them.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .