Former Ondo State governor Dr Olusegun Mimiko acknowledges cheers from his supporters after announcing his return to Labour Party recently A coalition of young Nigerians, the Young Professionals For Progress, has called on Olusegun Mimiko, a presidential aspirant of the Labour Party, to exit the party so as to focus ‘on the task of ushering Nigeria into a new dawn’. In a statement released on Wednesday by the coalition executives, the group said that it was forced to make this call because they have a strong belief that the strife between Ayuba Wabba, the president of the Nigerian Labour Congress, NLC, and Labour Party leaders is being fuelled by a former national president of the NLC. “We, the Young Professionals For Progress (YPP), a coalition of 23 groups of young Nigerian professionals hereby call on our mentor and leader, Olusegun Mimiko to step away from the on-going unproductive drama between president of the Nigeria Labour Congress, NLC, Ayuba Wabba and the leadership of the Labour Party, LP, so we, can all focus on the task of ushering Nigeria into a new dawn,” the group said. This is coming days after Mimiko,  declared his intent for the presidency on September 13 under the aegis of the LP, had come under attacks from the party leaders. Addressing a news conference in Abuja on Thursday, 14 September, the NLC President, Ayuba Wabba, and the LP National Publicity Secretary, Ebere Ifendu, said it was not possible for Mimiko to actualise his presidential ambition under their party. “It is not possible for Mimiko to run under the Labour Party and we want to say no to that as Mimiko has no business as a member of Labour Party,” Wabba said. However, the coalition, which said it has a documented 50,000 grassroots membership, condemned, in strong terms, the battle for the control of Wabba and called it is a distraction. “It was then with dismay and disgust that we received reports of resistance against your candidacy from Ayuba Wabba, one of the most ineffectual labour leaders Nigeria has ever had, – an unnecessary distraction towards this march towards lasting peace and progress,” the group said. They further opined that Mimiko “to leave the Labour Party as we believe the ramblings will only do more harm to your – and invariably our – cause, which we believe supersedes any personal gratification, which is the fuel driving your detractors within the compromised wing of the NLC led by Ayuba Wabba.” “In as much as we acknowledge your loyalty to a party you helped to launch into national prominence, we also implore you to seize the opportunity which the 2019 presents and continue on this victorious march.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .