 Prince Ned Nwoko  Prince Nwoko is a frontline senatorial aspirant for Delta North District on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Speaking during an interview in Abuja during a solidarity visit, the ALGON National President lauded Prince Nwoko, describing him as a towering patriot and national icon, whose influence and support cut across his Delta North home base and the entire country. “Prince Ned Nwoko is not just a leader for Delta North and Delta State but also for the whole country, Nigeria and even Africa. He richly deserves to be unanimously supported and voted in by his people to come to the Senate in Abuja for the good of his district and Nigeria as a whole,” the President-General declared. He pointed out that they were behind Nwoko largely because of his concern for the Nigerian masses, stressing that the tenacity and patriotism with which he fought for his country on the international stage and secured the recent Paris Club refunds testifies to his love for the country. “Prince Nwoko is an outstanding personality who is capable of leading not only the people of Delta North but the entire country. Today, the states and local governments in this country are paying workers salaries because of the Paris Club refunds, which Prince Ned Nwoko fought for and sacrificed a lot to win for all of us. He ensured that Nigeria was not shortchanged. That is why we bestowed on him the ALGON Prestigious Award for his patriotism and courage in fighting the powerful Paris Club,” Kagara stressed. Describing the leading PDP senatorial contender for Delta North as somebody who is very capable to offer purposeful leadership not just at the senatorial level but at national and international stages, the ALGON President called on all ALGON representatives in Delta North to vote for Prince Ned Nwoko and also mobilize others to follow suit because he is a trustworthy leader with uncommon integrity and commitment. The ALGON President said that it was to the greatest credit of Prince Ned Nwoko that states and local governments are now paying salaries of workers with relative ease. He stressed, “Many Nigerians at the state and local government levels can now relax and enjoy because of the efforts of one outstanding Nigerian statesman, Prince Ned Nwoko. We know that he will do more for his people and Nigeria if he is elected to the Senate of the Federal Republic.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .