 Read More: Listen: Drake Fires Shots At Kanye West On French Montana’s ‘No Stylist’  Kanye West. Photo: Kanye West/Youtube According to the “Ye” rapper, some people are committing suicide because they are not getting enough likes on social media. The multiple Grammy award winning rap star is adamant about Twitter tweaking some of its functions. This time, the controversial West took his thoughts to Instagram. Responding to an article saying he was absolutely right for wanting Twitter to remove their likes system and follower count, ‘Ye doubled down. “There are people who are committing suicide due to not getting enough likes,” he captioned the photo. “Seeking validation in the simulation. We need a live-streamed meeting with Jack Dorsey Kevin Systrom Mike Krieger Mark Zuckerberg and Evan Spiegal. Speaking for myself I personally want to participate in social media with the option of not having to show my followers or likes. Having your amount of likes on display for the world to see and judge is like showing how much money you have in the bank or having to write the size of your dick on your t shirt.” Read More: Kanye West Issues A Warning To Drake Over Drama With Kim Kardashian Earlier in the week, Kanye shared a text conversation he had with Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey where he expressed his feelings directly to the man in charge. “We should be able to participate in social media without having to show how many followers or likes we have,” West later tweeted. “Just like how we can turn off the comments we should be able to turn off the display of followers. This has an intense negative impact on our self worth.” Dorsey sounds receptive to the change. He wrote back: “We’ve been thinking deeply about follower and like counts, and what that incentivizes. What made sense 12 years ago doesn’t make sense today. At least for us,” Dorsey replied. “Us making that number bold and big incentivized people to want to increase it, and feel bad if they couldn’t. That’s not right. We want to incentivize contribution to the global conversation and consciousness.” Read More: Listen: Drake Fires Shots At Kanye West On French Montana’s ‘No Stylist’ See below: There are people who are committing suicide due to not getting enough likes. Seeking validation in the simulation.  We need a live-streamed meeting with Jack Dorsey Kevin Systrom Mike Krieger Mark Zuckerberg and Evan Spiegal. pic.twitter.com/boAbEDqIyG — ye (@kanyewest) September 22, 2018  Speaking for myself I personally want to participate in social media with the option of not having to show my followers or likes — ye (@kanyewest) September 22, 2018  Having your amount of likes on display for the world to see and judge is like showing how much money you have in the bank or having to write the size of your dick on your t shirt — ye (@kanyewest) September 22, 2018  Read More: Video: Snoop Dogg And Nick Cannon Respond To Kanye West’s Rant