Prof. Tajudeen Gbadamosi (left); Commissioner for Home Affairs, Dr. AbdulHakeem Abdulateef; the Chief Imam of Lagos, Sheikh Sulaiman Oluwatoyin Abou-Nolla and Alhaji Sikiru Alabi Macfoy during the presentation of staff of office to the new chief Imam in Lagos. Chairman, Lagos Central Mosque Executive Council, Sheikh Abdul Hafeez Abou last Sunday presented the newly appointed Chief Imam of Lagos, Sheikh Sulaiman Oluwatoyin Abou-Nolla, with staff of office. The chief imam was named and turbaned November, last year, after the death of Imam Akinola Garuba. The presentation ceremony was supported by the vice chairman and Bashorun of Lagos, Alhaji Sikiru Alabi Macfoy; Commissioner for Home Affairs, Dr. AbdulHakeem AbdulLateef; and former Federal Commissioner for Works Alhaji Femi Okunnu, among others. No fewer than 60 Muslims were also decorated with various traditional titles at the event attended by Governor Akinwunmi Ambode represented by his Deputy, Dr. Idiat Adebule; Speaker of the House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa; Senator Gbenga Ashafa among others. Ambode said the state recognizes the important role the Muslim community plays in the peace and harmony being enjoyed in the state, saying the Chief Imam who is the custodian of Islamic tradition in the state, has been a partner in Lagos project. The Sultan of Sokoto and President of the Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar III charged the new Chief Imam and 60 newly turbaned title holders in the state to justify the confidence reposed in them and use their positions to promote peace and harmony not in Lagos but the entire country. Sultan represented by the Deputy President of the NSCIA and President, Muslim Ummah of South-West Nigeria (MUSWEN), Alhaji Sakariyyah Babalola urged the Chief Imam to work for the progress of Islam. He also charged the new Islamic titleholders to redouble their efforts in the propagation of the religion and entrenchment of peaceful and harmonious relationship among religious adherents in the state. In his welcome address, Executive Chairman of the mosque and Baba Adinni of Lagos, Sheikh Abdul Hafeez Abou praised the erudition and well-cultured mannerism of the new Imam. He said his new role requires the cooperation of all leaders of Muslim organizations and community leaders and the youths to interact and address problems of common interest and concern for meaningful coexistence. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .