 Vice President Yemi Osinbajo PHOTO: NOVO ISIORO  Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who stated this while declaring open the photo exhibition to mark the 2018 commemoration of Nigeria’s 58th Independence anniversary celebration with the theme: “The Footprints of Nigeria’s Political Leaders” in Abuja, also said that each phase had tested the commitment of our leaders to the Nigerian project, their ingenuity and their wisdom in navigating the frequently tortuous and turbulent waters of our national story. Osinbajo, who described Nigeria’s history as the beginning of great Nigerian story, noted that our history is the least that we can ever be.He said: “There are three reasons at least this historical excursion is important. The first is that it helps us to recognise the incredible leadership of our political leaders from the colonial days till the moment. All of these incredible leaders, men and women, who have shown such great wisdom and wit at various times; such dedication and courage at various times; this exhibition celebrates them.” He, therefore, stressed the need to pursue a prosperous and just Nigeria and never allow our checkered history to determine our future.The Vice President noted that our future holds much more and is a precursor to a prosperous, united and where all of us are treated fairly and justly. ‘’I am pleased to say on behalf of the Nigerian government and people that we have chosen to say that our history will not determine our future; our history is the least that we can ever be; our future is much greater; our history is only a precursor to a greater Nigeria; to a Nigeria that is prosperous, united and where all of us are treated fairly and justly. Our history is only the beginning of that great Nigerian story that all of these people who have won awards represent; that they are going to be better than those of us who sit here today. ‘’We have not always excelled or have not always done as well as we should. But that is not the story. The story is that we have never irked the courage and will to keep trying, and to do so with greater resolve and greater commitment. “With the benefit of hindsight, I think that it is evident that at every turn, we clearly saw strength of Nigerians’ resolve to build a nation and the valiant attempts of the leadership at state building,” he further said. However, the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, said the day was special to every Nigerian as it was a day to reflect on our unity, patriotism and commitment to nation-building. He encouraged participants, especially the youths, to spend time to view and savour this significant and historical exhibition, which showcased Nigeria’s political history from pre-colonial era till date, as well as Nigeria’s rich cultural heritage.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .