Nigeria’s German coach Gernot Rohr / AFP PHOTO / PIUS UTOMI EKPEI • NFF writes CAF over confusion in dates 
Super Eagles Manager, Gernot Rohr has started planning the strategies to beat Libya in the 2019 African Nations Cup qualifiers against the North Africans next month. The Eagles manager has already drawn his squad list for the double header, which will be released next week. Nigeria will host Libya in the first of the Cameroun 2019 double-header in Uyo on either October 12 or 13. Rohr told The Guardian through Super Eagles’ Media Officer, Toyin Ibitoye yesterday that the technical crew began preparations for the game against Libya immediately after beating Seychelles in Victoria in the last game, adding that the Eagles knew the danger in losing or drawing any of the matches with Libya. He also disclosed that the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) has taken care of everything the team requires for the match to ensure hitch-free preparations for the games. “The coach is working round the clock to ensure the best players are available for the qualifiers. With the level of commitment of the Super Eagles in their game against Seychelles, I believe the team beat Libya in both games,” he said. Meanwhile, another dramatic development has cropped up in the oscillating issue about dates and venues for the qualifiers, as Libya appears ready to play the matches on October 13 and 16, writes footballlive.ng. Although Confederation of African Football (CAF) has been reluctant in accepting a request by Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to have the first leg shifted to October 13 in Uyo, foootballllive.ng gathered that Libya are willing to accept the shift. That, though, would also mean having to move the second leg in Tunisia to another date, but Libya Football Federation (LFF) is again ready to do just that, meaning the reverse fixture could now hold on Tuesday, October 16. The final word is expected from CAF, while Tunisia Football Federation (NFF) also needs to be carried along, as they will provide logistics for a smooth organisation of the second leg on their home soil. However, in a swift move to take advantage of Libya’s readiness to be flexible on the matter, the NFF has written to all bodies involved in the matches, to formally and officially inform them of the proposed changes. NFF Secretary General, Dr. Sanusi Mohammed earlier said the federation had written to question the decision of CAF to shift the date of Super Eagles’ 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifiers against Libya from Saturday to Friday. Nigeria is in Group E of the AFCON qualifiers and occupies third spot with three points from two games. The Eagles have been scheduled to host Libya at the Godswill Akpabio Stadium in the matchday three of the qualifiers. “We have officially communicated our position to CAF as regards shifting the game from Saturday to Friday. “We are baffled by the decision,” Sanusi Mohammed said in an interview with Footballlive.ng. “It is the prerogative of the host nation to decide the day they want to play their match, even as we await whatever explanation that CAF will be giving to us.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .