Ibejii Performing Following the wide acceptance of his maiden double album releases, GreenWhiteDope001 and GreenWhiteDope002 in a somewhat novel fashion last year, soulful storyteller-singer, Ibejii, on Thursday September 20, made return with his third album titled, Tribal Marks, The album listening party, which held at the Jazzhole, Ikoyi, Lagos, had journalists and fans of Ibejii come from far and wide to fete the singer. And as usual, he did not disappoint, as he performed various songs from the new album. Speaking about the album, the avant-garde crooner said: “Tribal Marks is a celebration of man, culture people and our place society. Just like the physical tribal mark, it is an identifier that says we are proud people with potential and future.” On what informed the choice of the album title, Ibejii adds: “To be honest, we suspect that when people hear the title they know that we are speaking to dept and meaning, and our music is driven by values and faults. So we end up people who want to talk, engage and intellectualize.” The 11-track album is packed with delightful tunes seamlessly woven with classic jazz. The new body of work establishes Ibejii’s leading status within the alternative music universe; as he serves up a delightful menu of afro-retro tunes, seamlessly woven around contemporary afro-jazz. Ibejii in the album continues with his trademark storytelling, which is adored by fans, using sweet melodies, captivating metaphors and traditional folklore. The album delves deep into his mind on the subjects of humanity, politics and love. Prior to his to the release of first two albums, he dropped a hit single, Ayanfe, which was off GreenWhiteDope 001, which still enchants at wedding party scene and continues to attract attention for its sweet vibe and sensuality. “Ayanfe was my first gift to the world; a world of pure souls, lovers of edifying verse, of chivalry and character – a beautiful, beautiful place. I welcome lovers of great sound to join me on this journey of self-discovery – a journey that embraces hope and promise, but also self-doubt and diffidence,” Ibejii stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .