“Posture is more than just a function of the way one stands or sit, it is a reflection of a person’s overall health, fitness and the body’s strength and weakness” – Eric Robertson. Sitting down upright while working happens can be a very difficult feat. This is because slouching seems like a more comfortable position. This is, however, discomforting in the long run. It, then, becomes a conscious effort on your part to sit upright. So, as hard as it gets, a reminder of the risk and benefit of a good sitting posture is the best juggle you need to make sitting upright a necessity; The risk of bad sitting postures are interrelated and comes in stages: Pain This is the first thing that alerts you that your sitting posture is bad. It flows from your neck, to your shoulders and down to your back. Stress Stress is your body’s response to demand, which makes it literally part of living. However, pain caused from bad sitting posture leads to additional stress. Fatigue Overtime, when your body gets overly stressed out, extreme tiredness becomes an everyday feeling. Weak muscle This is the final stage, a reduction in the strength of your muscle to perform the necessary task and also the point that leads to other diseases such as heart diseases, lung diseases, e.t.c. Maintaining a good sitting posture can benefit a person’s body and mind in the following ways: Power Posture is a feature of body language. A study by researchers from Columbia and Harvard universities showed that body language symbolising power can actually affect our decision-making subconsciously. Efficient movement Sitting and standing are components of posture, therefore they both are related. A good sitting posture will help make a good standing posture which will, in turn, give strength and speed to your movement. Improved breathing Posture in which the shoulders are hunched forward can impact breathing because the diaphragm and the lungs have less room to expand and this narrows the airways – Jill Henderzahs-Mason. Confidence A good sitting posture leaves the impression of one who is confident, being confident means feeling good about oneself and feeling good about oneself makes a competent one.