 [File] Iran’s foreign minister on Tuesday lashed out at Donald Trump over the US president’s message to the country on the occasion of its Nowruz Persian New Year celebrations.<br />US President Donald Trump  Photo AFP/ LOEB  Stephen Miller, his policy adviser advocating hard-line immigration policy who is Jewish was labelled a hypocrite by his uncle David S Glosser, saying he had “watched with dismay and increasing horror as my nephew, who is an educated man and well aware of his heritage, has become the architect of immigration policies that repudiate the very foundation of our family’s life in this country.” Oh by the way, the “fine people” of Charlottesville had placards stating they would not be displaced by Jews and so if they have their way people like Miller could find themselves in big trouble like in the old country they escaped from. William H. Frey who recently wrote a book titled Diversity Explosion has noted that Trump’s White supporters have misplaced anxiety. For the country as a whole, but particularly Whites, low birth rates could result a precipitous decline in population growth as seen in countries like Japan. Immigration he noted will bring in youthful workers and “ironically, it is the older white population that would benefit handsomely from investments in the labour force skills of younger minorities – by the latter’s contribution to Social Security and Medicare” – Trump won the overwhelming proportion of the older White vote. Read More: Trump’s new world order, family and tribes – Part 3 Trump supporters who received the crumbs from his tax cuts are likely to be negatively impacted by price rises as a result of Trump’s tariffs. Trump’s rural base who continue to strongly support him, are being hit by tariffs on their exports to China. Trump’s strongest supporters in the EU, namely, central and eastern European states, are jittery because of Trump’s embrace of Putin’s Russia who they see as a major threat. According to an analysis by the Heritage Foundation, US mills that supply aluminium and steel raw materials employ fewer than 200,000 people while U.S. companies that buy those inputs that will be adversely affected by Trump’s tariffs employ more than 6.5 million workers. And “Trump Country,” notably the Rust Belt, rely more on exports for jobs than other parts of the country. Trump does not do irony and such inconsistencies do not matter/apply to him, his family and his tribes. Read More: Trump’s new world order, family and tribes – Part 2 There is no issue with his family occupying prominent positions and benefiting financially because that is the smart thing to do. His actions are just are what he has always done, with his business where family members run the show, with tax (avoidance), bankruptcy laws and his (disgruntled) employees. He is against immigration from “shithole” countries but he is OK with it when it relates to his family, business and immigrants from predominantly White countries like Norway. His gripe with kneeling (Black) sports stars is because they are ungrateful for what they are getting particularly as they do not actually belong to America as was Obama. He reminded his rich tribe after the tax cut on how grateful they should be that he had filled their coffers. And his working class White base, well they should be happy with their lot just like the employees and contractors he has shafted. The Trump new world order/chaos is a cause for concern at home and abroad. It is more of a chaos than an order and this is partly because his victory was a surprise and there was no real Trump doctrine/plan other than what is in it for Trump and his family, anger, hate and tribal affiliation. Yes he had some platitudes but these were not well thought out and coherent strategies and policies. His party is unrecognisable in terms of its long held principles. American democracy is under threat and one of the earliest experiments of modern democracy is seeing a lurch to authoritarianism reminiscent of the darkest days of the twentieth century. Analysis and science have been thrown out of the window as Trump takes policies and positions based on prejudice and conspiracy theories. On the world stage Trump’s statements on NATO and the EU and his embrace of Putin, affinity towards authoritarian leaders, protectionist policies are introducing a chaotic process never seen for many decades. Allies, frequently berated, attacked and surprised by Trump who often sides with traditional enemies such as Putin in the case of the EU, are confused and the most recent statement by the French President, echoing that made by Chancellor Merkel suggests that Europe is finally deciding to take a path that is more independent of the U.S. The EU is particularly concerned because of Trump’s support for Brexit, ant-liberal policies of east and central European members and anti EU movements and parties. In Asia, America’s allies, notably, Japan and South Korea are worried about the mercurial president who despite all the fanfare seems to have achieved nothing in his meeting with North Korea and his reluctance to engage in military exercises. The whole world is worried about America’s tariffs, his unravelling of carefully crafted accords such as the Paris climate change, Iran, World Trade Organisation, NAFTA agreements and belligerent posture but without clearly thought out replacements. Trump’s disdain of analysis, science, lack of experience or interest in politics and diplomacy but rather only guided by bloated regard of his own intellect and deal making prowess, his tribe and conspiracy theories makes world leaders worried. This angry leader, ready to take on the world, armed with the most powerful economic and military force, backed by a sycophantic congress and support from the only people he cares for, his base, is unnerving. And with his legal issues and the Mueller probe at home, he may just lash out as he is prone to do when he is frustrated and/or wants to change the news agenda. Concluded. Rogers is principal consultant, Media and Event Management, Oxford, United Kingdom. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .