 Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun State.  The chapter Chairman, N.B. Ashaye who made the appeal in Abeokuta, the State capital explained that creating such an office would enhance productivity and service delivery. According to him, it was regrettable that Ogun is the only state out of the South-West States that is yet to create the office of the Surveyor-General as an extra ministerial department to promote good governance. Ashaye spoke at the second term swearing in and investiture of new executive members of the branch held at the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library (OOPL) Abeokuta. “This administration will continue to drive the generality of members towards continuous professional development and promote adaptation of members to new technological tools and technological base on professional practice. I urge all surveyors to brace up to walk along as we engage in the use of new tools and order of practice”, he said. Also the State’s Chairman of the Association of Private Practising Surveyors of Nigeria (APPSN) insisted that the best developed environment is always the best mapped “and therefore there is continuous need for our towns, cities and villages to be properly surveyed and mapped”. In his view, the real progress of land acquisition is ensuring that private practising surveyors are involved in solving the “prevailing problems of obtaining proper title for every parcel of land.” He expressed concern on the number of quacks in surveying in the country and regretted that due to lower fees such fraudsters charge, more people patronise them. His words: “We are aware that fake survey plans are on the increase because the gullible public thinks surveying should be cheaper in the face of increase in the cost of everything, including land, survey equipment among others and so they employ the services of anybody that lower the cost of survey. The reduction of such incidences is one of the onerous assignments we want to undertaken”. Other officers elected include Lanre Sotayo (Secretary) and Festus Oguleye (Treasurer). To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .