The Guardian has continued to re-affirm its long-time tradition of robust online and offline journalism in the country. The newspaper’s Head of Communication and Technology Desk, Adeyemi Adepetun, at the weekend emerged the Information Communication Technology (ICT) Editor of the Year. This came barely two months after it bagged two industry recognitions at the yearly Nigeria Internet Registration Association (NiRA) .ng media awards and Nigeria Online Merit Award (NiOMA). The Guardian in July hitting the third time in a row, bagged the Best Print Media Website and Presidential Award in the best supporting media partner category at the NiRA Awards, which celebrates “achievements and innovations” among websites using the .ng domain name in Nigeria. Same month, the newspaper, which is the flagship of the Nigerian media, won the Newspaper Website of the Year award in the Gold Category at the 2018 NiOMA award, hence claiming its resolve to hold on to the ICT space in the country. Adepetun won the award at a yearly event titled Titans of Tech Awards, organised by Technology Africa in Lagos at the weekend. Managing Consultant, Technology Africa, Pedro Aganbi, said the award was an important avenue to recognise and celebrate individuals, who have made huge difference not just in their organisations but also on the ICT and telecom industry and the country as a whole. Aganbi described the award as recognition of overall excellence of unflinching commitment and a life-time of efforts in the service of ICT, humanity and Nigeria. Also, Chairman of the event, former Executive Vice Chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Dr. Ernest Ndukwe, urged the awardees to do more in their respective domains. He called for more collaborative efforts towards deepening ICT in the country. Aganbi said it is however obvious that this can only be achieved if we consciously and intentionally seek new models and pursue new regulations in the quest to arrive at a new future. “We believe that a lot more capital investment is required to establish the infrastructure necessary to cement Nigeria’s place as a technological connected society. We envisage that the best way to achieve this is to further strengthen the existing policies around competition in the Nigerian market and boost collaboration among operators in the industry,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .