 PHOTO: TWITTER/NGSUPEREAGLES The Super Eagles of Nigeria didn’t need to get into higher gears as they strolled to a 3-0 victory over Seychelles. Captain Ahmed Musa opened the scoring in spectacular fashion in the 15th minute. The Al Nassr forward continued his fine form from the World Cup where he bagged two goals with a sublime left-footed volley that hit the cross-bar but eventually got into the net after the ball ricocheted off the back side of the Seychellois goalkeeper Dave Mussard. Kelechi Iheanacho, who started in attack alongside Odion Ighalo would rue his luck as his low 30-yard free kick crashed against the upright. FC Porto defender, Chidoziem Awaziem, however, was on hand to finish the rebound from inside the area in the 34th minute. Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr opted for a 4-4-2 against the Pirates with some of the players from the World Cup unavailable for various reasons. Bordeaux winger Samuel Kalu was handed his debut on the right side of the midfield with Musa in the left side. Kalu was majorly exciting on the ball offering width and effervescence on the wings as he looked dangerous when he was on the ball. Ighalo could have made it three in the first half but his lob over the goalkeeper landed on the cross-bar after he put through on goal. Gavin Jeanne’s men were unadventurous in the first half sitting deep and camping on the edge of their box hoping for the odd counter attack. Ighalo eventually got on the scoresheet in the 57th minute breaking his one year non-scoring run. The Changchun Yatai forward sent the goalkeeper the wrong way from the spot after Kalu was scythed down in the box. Though, the Pirates looked more purposeful in the second half asking few questions of the Nigerian defence but they couldn’t breach Francis Uzoho’s goal. Perry Mounnaie was unlucky to get on the scoresheet after he capitalised on lax defending by Kenneth Omeruo with the ba dragging wide of goal. The Super Eagles looked troubled at times but the inexperienced Seychelles team couldn’t apply a telling finish. Nigeria have their first three points in the Africa Cup of Nations qualifying group level on points with South Africa and Libya. South Africa will play against Libya today at the Moses Mabhida stadium. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .