 [File] Ejigbo environment, Lagos  The arrest, which was carried out by a heavily armed police detectives attached to Ejigbo division under ‘Area D’ Command, Mushin following a tip off, was personally led by the Divisional Police Officer (DPO), CSP Olabisi Okuwobi. Investigation revealed that prior to the suspect’s arrest, one Femi Kazeem was arrested after a botched attempt to rob a woman of her belongings using a stick fashioned like a gun. Detectives said it was the confession of Femi that led to No Case’s arrest at a secondary school while trying to snatch Permanent Voter’s Card (PVC) machines. A source at the Ejigbo Division said the moment after Segun Kazeem was picked up and a search warrant conducted at his Lafenwa Street residence, the office of the DPO was inundated with several calls requesting for his unconditional release. Thereafter, a staunch member of the Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC) was said to have stormed the division and demanded that he be released to him on bail. But this request was turned down by the DPO, who also ordered that the OPC member be detained with a view to shedding more lights on the activities of Kazeem. It was gathered that even when ‘No Case’ was arrested, he boasted before the police officers that they were courting a failing war that might even backfire, saying he was invincible and would soon regain his freedom. According to a community leader who lauded the rare achievement of the DPO but remain anonymous, he described Segun Kazeem as one that had defied police arrest until the deployment of the present DPO to Ejigbo. “This was a criminal that is notorious to the police and other law enforcement agents but could not be arrested because he is highly connected. Mark you; this is not the first time ‘No case’ is being arrested. Each time he was arrested, notable and respected personalities would appear at the police station to say that he was a good, easy-going gentleman; and he would be released shortly afterward. Our hearts go to the new DPO; she is doing what so many men who had been here could not do.” Ejigbo had lately been witnessing an upsurge of armed robbery attacks, particularly in the Lafenwa and Oke-Afa areas. At the weekend, a building beside a guest house in Oke-Afa was ransacked while all the occupants slept off. Nobody was aware of what happened until the dawn of Saturday. A similar attack had occurred last month at Number 1, Fatoba Street, Oke-Afa, where a flat was burgled before dawn, while the occupant with his entire family was sleeping inside. The window nets of the apartment on the ground floor were torn, windows removed and the burglary destroyed before the robbers gained entry and carted away all electrical appliances, money and phones without waking up the victims. Even neighbours were unaware of what happened until dawn. The victim, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said robbers with the connivance of an insider suspected to be younger brother of the landlord who resides abroad, had been attacking the building at intervals of three months as all the four ground occupants have all been robbed in the space of one year.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .