 [FILE PHOTO] FIFA president Gianni Infantino gives thumbs up during a press conference at the Luzhniki Stadium in Moscow on July 13, 2018, two days before the Russia 2018 World Cup final football match between France and Croatia. / AFP PHOTO / Jewel SAMAD  The usual ‘refrain’ by a school of thought has always been that football matters should never be taken to court or else a country’s FA will be banned or sanctioned.  Will FIFA ban the Belgium club, or the Belgian Football Federation that ‘allowed’ the matter to be taken to a civil court. Or will FIFA abide by the judgment of the European civil court?  Last weekend, the Super Eagles of Nigeria played an international friendly match against the Lone Stars of Liberia in Monrovia.  
 
For the first time in several years, George Opong Weah, former captain of the Liberian national team, former African, European and World Player of the year, dusted his boots, wore the colours of his national team and returned to the football field. 
 
The surprise is that he is now 54 years of age, has been retired for almost two decades and is now the President of his country, the Federal Republic of Liberia.  The country established the National Sports Commission and the National Institute of Sports, organized the Second All Africa Games, led the African boycott of the Olympic Games in a politically-motivated protest, organised the first National Sports Festival using sports to unite the youths of the country after the Civil War and hosted its first African Cup of Nations.
 
In football, in particular, during the decade, Nigeria won the All Africa Games football gold in 1973, won continental African football Club championship two times consecutively in 1976 and 1977, went to two Olympics games in 1976 and 1980, and won the country’s first African football championship to cap 1980. 
 
None of the great superstar players of that entire decade was ever honoured with a proper football testimonial match to celebrate and to mark their exit from the game.
 
So, I am thinking.  These players laid the foundation upon which the country has become a global football phenomenon. These players deserve some kind of ceremonial event to send them forth. Too late to do the individual testimonials, but nothing says we cannot be inventive and do a collective testimonial with those who are still privileged and lucky to be alive. 
 
In two years’ time it will be 40 years since the end of that era. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .