Mr Tunji Itiola, Head of Sales, Massilia Motors Limited; Ms Funmi Abiola, Marketing Manager, Massilia Motors Limited; Mr Kunle Jaiyesimi, Deputy Managing Director, Massilia Motors Limited, and Mr Navin Chander, General Manager, Massilia Motors Limited. PHOTO: TransportDay Sole distributor of Mitsubishi vehicles in Nigeria, Massilia Motors, recently celebrated the heritage of the Mitsubishi Motors, in its Lagos showroom.
The event themed, ‘Mitsubishi Motors Heritage Week’ was the first of its kind on the Nigerian Automotive scene. For this purpose, Massilia Motors built a maze in the showroom taking visitors and participants on a journey through the various achievements of the brand throughout the five day period. From the Model A produced in 1917, a four wheel drive prototype in 1933 to pioneering electric technology in 1970, the brand stunned visitors with its various technological achievements. Mitsubishi Motors even earned a Guinness world record with one of its electric vehicle technologies. The drive down memory lane showcased the brand’s design evolution as well as revived memories of iconic Mitsubishi Motors models such as the Galant and the Lancer evolution. The Heritage week was also an opportunity to hint the public on Mitsubishi’s new positioning and disruptive approach, as it partnered with Zaron cosmetics, Chocolate City, Canon, Aspire Luxury Magazine, and Johnnie Walker, to engage its happy users, visitors and enthusiasts.
Headlining the different activities were renowned photographer Emmanuel Oyeleke; celebrity makeup artist, Theodora Magu; actress and jazz artiste, Tomi Odunsi, and Chocolate City CEO and rapper M.I Abaga. Addressing the audience on the final day of the Heritage Week, Marketing Manager of Massilia Motors, Funmi Abiola, expressed her gratitude to guests in attendance, as well as the different partners, who helped make the week a success. She said: “Our commitment to connecting with our consumer base does not stop with (Heritage Week). Mitsubishi is fully intent on moving forward, and ensuring that consumers are always happy.” Earlier, the General Manager, Marketing and Sales, Massilia Motors, Navin Chander, said: “A logical development from the Mitsubishi Motors Brand strategy, ‘Drive your ambition’ is the new tagline that describes an attitude that has been true of Mitsubishi since its first car a century ago. “Drive your Ambition is a powerful statement of Mitsubishi Motors Corporation’s on-going commitment to the values and aspirations of its drivers. It clearly differentiates MMC (Mitsubishi Motors Corporation) as a customer-centric force in global mobility”.
Also speaking, the Deputy Managing Director of Massilia Motors, Mr. Kunle Jaiyesimi, said the company is proud to celebrate the rich Mitsubishi heritage in Nigeria, “as Massilia has been a success story.” Massilia Motors, consolidated with the CFAO group has been distributing Mitsubishi Motors in seven African countries over the years and has fostered a strong relationship with the brand. Notable celebrities and distinguished guests in attendance at the week’s various events include Banky W, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu, Noble Igwe, Sound Sultan, Yung L, Ini Dima-Okojie, Nonso Bassey, Funke Bucknor, Bidemi Zakariyau, and Chuey Chu, amongst others.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .