Justice Opeyemi Oke The Chief Judge of Lagos State, Justice Opeyemi Oke has reiterated her commitment to improve public access, transparency and accountability to boost confidence of the public in the judiciary. The chief judge also called for support of the stakeholders in the justice sector to enable her deliver on the goal of ensuring effective justice system in the state. While unveiling the large banner containing her commitment statement in a Magistrates Court located at Ajeromi Ifelodu Local Government Area of Lagos, she underscored the importance of various stakeholders keying into the commitment statement. According to her, she alone cannot deliver on the promises in the statement without stakeholders support. She has so far unveiled 11 similar commitment statements at both the High Court and Magistrates Courts across the state. Represented by Justice Hakeem Oshodi, she said: “I hereby call on all relevant stakeholders in the judicial sector to key into this commitment statement in order to achieve its laudable aim for the common good and for posterity of residents of this state. “The commitment statement emphasizes the hallmarks of accountability, transparency and efficiency needed for effective discharge of duties within the state judiciary.” The chief judge further stated that the commitment statement should serve as a constant reminder of duties and obligation that must be professionally delivered to members of the public and to also show her determination to bring a new dawn to the State judicial system. She also emphasised that the Lagos judiciary would continue to be the hope for the common man, dispensing justice without fear or favour to any party. She assured residents of the state of her zero tolerance for corruption and also pledged to improve public access, transparency and accountability in order to boost confidence of the public in the judiciary during her tenure. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .