Rising flood in Lokoja…on Friday PHOTO: JOHN AKUBO Okowa meets with children, promises schools at IDP camps
Despite Federal Government assurance that the worst is over on the raging flood across the states in the country, the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) yesterday disclosed that the death toll had increased from the initial 108 to 199, and the injured people now stood at 1,036 from 192. The third situation update released by the agency revealed that 176,299 persons are internally-displaced, 109,820 people are currently living with families, 17,816 houses has been destroyed, 150,285 hectares of agricultural land destroyed/damaged, and 321 roads and bridges destroyed. The report also noted that the large-scale flooding that has impacted 826,403 people and the numbers are expected to rise further as assessments are still ongoing in some states. It said 87 local councils across 10 states had been affected by severe flooding and data are still being collated in 2 other states. In another development, Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has directed the Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education to organise academic activities for school children at different holding camps as a result of flood, which submerged their communities. Okowa, who disclosed this yesterday at an interactive session with the children during an unscheduled visit to Oneh and Ogbe-Afor primary schools, Asaba, said: “I have listened to you (children) and your major concern is how to be engaged academically in the camp. The Commissioner for Basic and Secondary Education is already working on that; it is very important that the children are positively engaged in an organised manner.” The governor, who had earlier visited flood-ravaged communities of Oko-Odifulu, Umu-Oko, Oko-Ogbele, Oko-Anala and Oko Amakom in Oshimili South Local Council, represented by a special medical team from the Ministry of Health and the Primary Health Care Development Agency led by the Chairman, Dr. Isioma Okobah, commiserated with the victims over their property ravaged by the flood. Okobah said: “Our governor has sent us all the way from Asaba crossing the River Niger in a speed boat to check on you and know your challenges, because he wants to ensure health and prosperity for all Deltans. Since we can’t force you to move to IDP camps, the governor is assuring you that he will provide relief materials here.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .