 Deji Ajomale – Mcword, convener, African Sports Tourism Week; Funke Osae – Brown, publisher Luxury Reporter and Tope Ogbeni – Awe, Chief Service Officer, Topcomm PR  at the Lagos Luxury Lifestyle Summit 2018 Press Conference.  In preparation for the event, the management has announced renowned speakers for the 2018 edition of the summit. This follows an earlier endorsement by the Lagos State Government as the host city, which was published in the Lagos tourism calendar of the Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture. This year, the summit will have Foluso Phillips, Executive Chairman of Phillips Consulting and erstwhile Chairman of the Nigerian Economic Summit Group as the lead speaker to deliver the topic; Growing the Lagos luxury sector: opportunities and challenges. Foluso Phillips has got a phenomenal experience in the luxury sector coupled with his organisation’s extensive research report on the luxury industry in Lagos state, his speech promises to be an eye-opener to the numerous opportunities abound in Lagos State and beyond. Funke Osae-Brown, Partner of The Lagos Luxury Lifestyle Summit and Publisher of The Luxury Reporter announced that the 2018 edition of the summit is unique because it is expanded beyond Nigeria with a specific look at the Kenya and South African luxury markets. In this vein, Michael Mwai, the CEO, Luxuria Lifestyle East Africa, will be speaking on the Africa luxury experience: The Kenya experience.
Nwai’s passion for the luxury industry in Africa is rare with a distinctive specialty in connecting luxury brands to consumers on the continent and to opportunities in the sector. Other speakers include Modupe Ogunlesi, the CEO of Adam and Eve Homeware, who has been in the luxury retail space for 20 years and counting. She will speak on Luxury retail in Lagos: The making of homegrown luxury brand, while Bola Allison, who has been a Jeweller for 15 years will speak on The next phase of luxury in Lagos: expectations and challenges. The Lagos Luxury Summit will also feature a panel discussion to further engage professionals and experts in the luxury sector.Tope Ogbeni-Awe, Partner of The Lagos Luxury Lifestyle Summit and Chief Service Officer, Topcomm PR has called on brands to take advantage of the summit to showcase their products, as spaces are limited. “This year, we are expecting an African dimension to the summit because we are bringing speakers from Kenya and South Africa to explain to us how far the luxury markets in these countries have grown and the potentials they have for the future. We are also going to have an exclusive golf tournament on the second day. You know golf is a game for high earners; so, people from existing golf clubs in Lagos will be playing that day. The idea is to showcase golf as a game for not just for the elites or well to do, but also for the upcoming aspirational players.” On the success of the maiden edition, he explained, “You know, when you sow a seed, you water it; you see it germinate and you watch it grow. So, we are watering the seed of the event hoping that it will grow to become a major event. So, the responses that we go last year encouraged us to ensure we have a seco0nd edition. The enthusiasm showed by the attendees and partners have also encouraged us to say that this event will not die; we will continue to grow it.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .