 Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, candidate in the forthcoming primaries of the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) ahead of next year’s presidential elections, speaks during a media briefing in Lagos on September 3, 2018.<br />Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar is campaigning for the presidential mandate of the opposition People’s Democratic Party to unseat the Incumbent President at next year’s presidential elections. / AFP PHOTO / PIUS UTOMI EKPEI  Like Obasanjo, Buhari adopted the strong arm tactics employing operation python dances, crocodile tears etc. The National Assembly called for the 2014 report. Temporary relief.   Buhari refused to send it, but someone did. Soon the political battles for the Senate leadership eclipsed everything. And the vibrations returned with stay at home orders by IPOB last week. The leaders of Southern Nigeria issue statements about DSS appointments and the continued lop sided appointments. Meanwhile, the Boko Haram insurgency remains active, so also the herdsmen killings (with reduced frequency) and the Niger Delta militants issuing threats.
 
Many states are insolvent and most depend on the federation account while concurrent expenditure consume over 70% of total national budget. On all scales of measuring human development index, Nigeria seems to have peaked in 1966 and seems to be on continuous roller-coaster ever since. Many Nigerians and good friends abroad agree that current Nigeria’s political and fiscal structures are unsustainable and are responsible for holding the country down and chronically preventing it from rising up and achieving its full potentials. Truly, Nigeria needs to set itself free and indeed needs to reinvent itself. A new foundation is indicated in line with the former destroyed foundation.
 
But as has been shown over and over, those in power have often failed to accept reality and do the needful. It is certain that self or group survival has been the main hindrance. Politicians in power who often do not feel the pain of the people and most times are consumed with selfish ambition have been most reluctant to take the bull by the horn. Because the needed restructuring or reinvention will lead to job and privileges losses, they have continued to deny or delay this panacea to save Nigeria and return it to a peaceful and ordered growth and development. Certainly, the piece-meal amendments of the 1999 constitution with token yielding of fiscal privileges to the beleaguered states, which Osinbajo seems to prefer will not solve Nigeria’s problem. We need a total reinvention of Nigeria-drastic overhaul and rearrangement of Nigeria’s political, geographic, economic, fiscal, educational, cultural and social structures and practices, captured in a new truly federal constitution truly drawn up by the true people of Nigeria. I am not quite sure Atiku’s concept of restructuring is as deep, holistic and wholesome as my own concept, hence I am standing with him half-way.
• Mazi Ohuabunwa, OFR.
 sam@starteamconsult.com  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .