 [FILE]Nigeria’s Finance Minister Kemi Adeosun attends the 2018 Annual Meetings of the African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) in Abuja, Nigeria July 13, 2018. Picture taken July 13, 2018. REUTERS/Afolabi Sotunde  Adeosun resigned her appointment on Friday, 69 days after Premium Times published a report that her National Youths Service Corps(NYSC) exemption certificate was fake. However, the PDP is not satisfied with the former minister’s resignation and has insisted on her immediate arrest and prosecution. “We acknowledge the resignation of KemiAdeosun from office as Minister of Finance, but insist on her immediate arrest and prosecution for deserting national service and forging her NYSC Exemption Certificate in addition to alleged impropriety and abuse of office,” PDP spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan said in a statement. “The PDP, therefore, demands an immediate open inquest into the records of the Finance Ministry under Mrs. Adeosun, to unravel all improprieties by the Buhari Presidency cabal, including alleged diversion of oil proceeds, fraudulent oil subsidy deals, leading to high fuel price; depletion of our foreign reserves, embezzling of funds returned by Switzerland and other huge sleazes in the ministry,” he added. The opposition party also stated that Buhari must be held responsible for all infractions in the finance ministry under Adeosun, as he appointed and retained her despite having information on the certificate forgery. The “situation that confirms the decadence and lack of due diligence in the Buhari Presidency,” Oklogbodiyan said. PDP further calls on international community to stop an alleged plot by the ruling party All Progressives Congress and the Federal Government have plans to “secretly” move the minister out of the country. “The PDP is also aware of plots by the Federal Government to secretly move her out of the country, and for that, we urge the international community to be at alert and ensure she is repatriated to face justice in Nigeria should the Federal Government succeeds in its devious plan,” Ologbodiyan claimed. Adeosun has since been replaced by Zainab Ahmed, who until Friday was a junior minister in the Ministry of Budget and National Planning. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .