 [File] Students in a classroom  They made the call at the launching of a book titled, Leadership and entrepreneurship series, co-authored by Chief Executive Officer, Crystal Marketing Centre Ltd, Dipo Ojedeji and creative director, Manners and Conduct, Aderonke Faseru. The stakeholders regretted that social vices and societal ills are multiplying by the day, thus the need for government at all levels to begin to redirect the minds of the youths and expose them to good traits of leadership and entrepreneurial education. Vice chancellor, Caleb University, Prof. Ayandiji Aina, who described the attitude of most Nigerian youths as unsatisfactory, pointed out that majority of them lack skills, mentorship and moral values, which he described as a threat to the country. Citing so many nefarious acts the contemporary youths usually engage in at homes and in schools, he stated that from all indication parenting has gone wrong in the society. He said, “We recently had conference on revitalising Nigerian education system, and I have come to realise that we cannot revitalise without doing something in the feeder system. If the foundation is wrong, there is nothing we can do at higher education level. Thus I recommend this book for all schools as it has lesson plans that will enable teachers inculcate leadership traits and stimulate entrepreneurial spirits of leaners at early age.” Tobi Lawal, who chaired the event, said Nigerian youths are highly intelligent and hard working but lack mentorship and direction. Teaching of leadership and entrepreneurship in practical terms is key. They must be made to understand that attitude, integrity and passion are imperative to living a responsible life. The book reviewer and education consultant, Busola Adegbaju, said the 17-chapter book, which is divided into two segments-leadership and entrepreneurship, regretted that Nigerians are known for high intellectual prowess, but applying it to realities of life is a challenge. Describing lack of application of knowledge to real life as a huge gap, which must be bridged, she said issues of leadership and skills must be prioritised in Nigerian schools. “I have read a lot of books, and I have not seen one with this volume of activity pages. This will encourage collaboration among pupils. The author was able to develop a curriculum in the book and this is laudable, as it will stimulate hands-on activities and enable learners to be explorative. This is the standard in developed climes but unfortunately it is lacking in our schools.” The authors urged both the federal and state governments to ensure that leadership and entrepreneurship is separated from civic education and prioritised in teaching and learning. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .