Nigeria Air The third attempt to own a national carrier by Nigeria has hit the rock again as the federal government suspend the most anticipated project, Nigeria Air, barely four months before its official launch. The Nigerian government unveiled the name and logo of the new national carrier on July 18 at Farnborough Air Show in London and fixed its launch date for December. As the news of Nigerian Air suspension filtered, the usually vocal Nigerian Twitter has quickly weighed in on the development. Was all the monies spent on unveiling the logo of Nigerian air for show ? Just like that London Logo wasted? — Charles Emuze (@coemuze) September 19, 2018 Lmaoooo FG has suspended Nigerian Air indefinitely.

Shey I told you people. — Immirimious God (@kodds_) September 19, 2018 And they spent millions on that Nigerian air logo. Millions on consultants.
I need a new passport man. —  (@Gare__A) September 19, 2018 Please Ma @obyezeks I want to apologize on behalf of all those people that insulted you because of the non feasible Nigerian air that was launched this year. Indeed what an elder sees sitting down a child can’t see even if they climb the iroko tree. — Uzor B N  (@Raouc1) September 19, 2018 Where are the lecturers of @obyezeks and @DoubleEph on Nigerian Air 101 course? School don close? — Florence Ozor™ (@FlorenceOzor) September 19, 2018 Can we, maybe, shift attention to launching a national bicycle line? That should be easier to do, I suppose. — Tony3! (@tonyeville01) September 19, 2018 There is no difference between Nigeria Air and MMM. — Parosident Buhari (@TheMbuhari) September 19, 2018 Apart from ….. MMM
TSTV
DSTV
Nigeria Air Which other scam do you know? (10marks) — Omope Abdul Azeez (@Iam_Abdulaxis) September 19, 2018 It was all a big fraud, an avenue to empower the “boys” 4 elections.First, AGF paid 17 Billion for a job already paid for by GEJ, then they came with Nigeria Air. All that millions spent junketing round the world and designing logo gone. BMC hailed it.Let’s wait for another scam. — Dr Chima Matthew Amadi (@AMADICHIMA) September 19, 2018 A competent President would have seen from a mile away that this Nigeria Air game was a scam from the start. Hadi Sirika took Mr Lifeless for a ride and the shame is now made public. #RIPNigeriaAir — Imhons Erons (@Imhons) September 19, 2018 Nigeria Air is dead on arrival as we predicted. FG has suspended the idea after spending money on a useless logo launch. It will eventually become impossible to defend Buhari/APC’s chronic incompetence.#RIPNigeriaAir — Babasola Kuti (@SKSolaKuti) September 19, 2018 Considering the amount paid in consultancy for that doomed-from-the-start Nigeria Air, what if the whole thing was a ruse to set aside some money for next year. — Nwakibeya (@Dikachim) September 19, 2018 You mean the dream of entering Nigeria Air have been suspended. Another disappointment. — Babalola Olufemi Joseph (@Iamfemijoseph) September 19, 2018 To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .