 Cross River State governor, Senator Ben Ayade  The open letter, singed by Abang O. Abang, for Central, Ukam Timothy Ekpenyong for South and Igrinya Clement Peters for North said: “We are constrained to write to the national leadership of our party about the great danger confronting the party in Cross River state …We are taking this step in the strong conviction that the party at centre will not be aware of the war of attrition raging even now in our dear state.”
 
The letter alleged that “the news that all senators must return is tearing the party in shred…That the former governor may have endorsed his political son Senator Owan-Enoh to run for governorship in APC in the believe that he will cross over to PDP after being elected. The plan is that the incumbent governor who is now being systematically weakened by the actions of Imoke in concert with officials of the party at the national level will be too week to make an impact when election arrives, and Imoke and his men will abandon him and give victory to Enoh.” Citing reasons why some stakeholders may not be happy with Ayade’s leadership style, Mr. Atu said the elders are not comfortable with the new breed of politicians in government, a situation that causes them to feel sidelined. Atu is of the opinion that there is collective risk if the party goes down; hence there is still time to reconcile. He said:  “Members should be allowed to select whoever they want. If for any reason there is an imposition it will be difficult to win. It is incumbent on the governor to reach out to members as the party leader.” Saying that stakeholders are not happy, he said “I know one of the areas people are not comfortable with the governor; it is the abandonment of ongoing projects. There is no continuity. For instance none of the rural roads except maybe one was attended to. These rural roads were about 90 percent ready and are very critical to the wellbeing of the people. The governor may have given lots of appointments to people by putting food on the table but people will rather prefer they are being thought how to fish.” Some of the governorship aspirants like Chief Edem Duke, Professor Eyo Etim Nyong, Mr. Emmanuel Robson, Mr. Eyo Ekpo and others have also scored Ayade low, citing low performance and bad governance. Even the SDP presidential aspirant, Mr. Donald Duke said in a recent interview that those who assumed office from 2007 to date killed the state, claiming they did not consolidate on the foundation he laid. As a way out he said; “we need to find leadership that can restore and rebuild our state. Cross River state deserves better leadership than what we are seeing.”
 
Petroleum geologist and consultant Prof. Nyong remarked that; “If the truth must be clearly stated and the future secured for the generations to come, you will agree that governance has been broken down, thus exposing Cross Riverians to unwarranted frustration and quantum hardship.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .