All is now set for the 2018 edition of the Seyi Akinwunmi Foundation Charity Invitational U-13 football tournament, slated for today and tomorrow at the Campos Mini Stadium, Lagos Island.
 
The organiser of the event, Seyi Akinwunmi, who is the first vice president of the Nigeria Football Federation, and also chairman of Lagos State Football Association, said the tournament would include four semi finalists at the last edition of the Channels International Kids Cup, and an invited school from the IDP camp in Borno State. The participating teams are LGEA Central School, Kaiama, Kwara State; Emmanuel Anglican Nursery and Primary School, Okesa, Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State; Baptist Government Primary School, Oshogbo, Osun State; X-Planter Nursery and Primary School, Ikorodu, Lagos State; Amigo Largema Military Cantonment Primary School, Borno State, and Eko Football Future Stars, Lagos State. Akinwunmi noted that all logistics to check any form of age cheat at the two-day event had been put in place. He added that the competition would be crucial to the development of grassroots football in the country.
 
“We are starting the tournament with six teams, but we hope it will become bigger. We will have scholarships for four pupils, and we will also have scholarship awards for the IDP school.
   
“We were involved in the screening of the Channels Kids Cup. We screened them in their schools before they came, and also did the same when they came for the Channels Kids Cup. So it is the same kids that are coming and we already know their age range,” he said. “The championship is not just about Seyi Akinwunmi, and not also only about Lagos State. No doubt, Nigeria will be untouchable in years to come as far as football is concerned,” Akinwunmi added. Also speaking on the tournament, the vice chairman of Lagos State Football Association, Tade Azeez, disclosed that donations from well-wishers and partners would be invested back into the Seyi Akinwunmi U-13 tournament for the schools and students sponsorship. He praised the NFF vice president for his contribution in changing the phase of grassroots football in the country. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .