Burdock root tea. PHOTO: kuppa_rock / Getty Images We shall continue with our discussion of the herbal treatment of uterine fibroids as I present ten commonly used herbs for the treatment of fibroids 1. Burdock root tea. This is recognised as a weed in areas such as North America, Europe and parts of Asia where it grows. The medicinally active part of the plant is the root and it can be easily brewed into tea. The important properties of Burdock root tea that makes it suitable for the treatment of fibroids is its anti-inflammatory and purifying properties. Furthermore, this tea cleanses and detoxifies excess oestrogen, which would otherwise have caused fibroid. In the same vein, it directly shrinks the tumour and this it does by its high level of the active ingredient arctigenin. It is also capable of inhibiting the growth of new tumour. It supports the liver in its function it detoxifies it, metabolizes oestrogen and eliminates excess oestrogen and other toxins and wastes. 2. Ginger tea. This from the root of the plant. The functions of the active ingredients in ginger tea include hormone balancing, prevention of oestrogen dominance and the ability to shrink tumour. Ginger Tea also reduces the symptoms that accompany large tumours such as heavy menstrual bleeding and cramps. Generally, ginger increases the circulation of blood in the body. By this action, ginger tea is able to enhance blood flow to the uterus, ovaries and fallopian tubes. It increases delivery of oxygen and nutrients to the uterus while increasing elimination of carbon dioxide, excess oestrogen and other wastes. As circulation of blood in the body increases by the action of ginger, a healthy inflammatory response is assured and detoxification is improved. Ginger also supports digestion, including digestion of oestrogen. 3. Dandelion root and leaf. This plant has been greatly despised as a weed that it was hard to recognise its nutritious and healing power. It is a nutritious Healing herb with a lot of medicinal properties. It is well known for its ability to stimulate the flow of bile and its diuretic properties. Dandelion is widely used for treatment and prevention of gallstones, management of premenstrual syndrome and high blood pressure. In the treatment of fibroids, Dandelion has the ability to maintain hormonal balance and reduce the oestrogen level in the blood circulation. Dandelion is a nutritious herb due to its high content of minerals and vitamins. The roots boost the health of the liver and help it to perform in digestion and better oestrogen metabolism. 4. Red Raspberry Tea. Otherwise known as Hindberry, this is a herb that is popular with pregnant women in countries like Germany. It is one of the most preferred herbs for the female reproductive organs and particularly suitable for uterine health. The fruits have a high content of antioxidants. It is also a nutritious herb. The mineral and vitamin content of red raspberry are potassium, magnesium, calcium, phosphorus and iron. Others are vitamins A, B and C.
Medicinal benefits of Dandelion come to the fore particularly in its positive action on the uterine muscles. It strengthens these muscles and controls menstrual bleeding. Dandelion tones the muscles of the uterus and normalises the flow of blood during the menstrual cycle. It also reduces menstrual symptoms such as cramps, pain and heavy bleeding that are usually associated with uterine fibroids. 5. Black cohosh. A nutritional supplement that is primarily used for balancing hormones in women. It also helps to tone the tissues of the uterus, keeps it healthy and reduces inflammation. The high level of the alkaloid berberine in Black cohosh is what tones the uterine Wall and in fact it blocks the growth and development of fibroids. This is one herb that is most often used to strengthen the immune system and by this action it can reduce the inflammation of the uterus. 6. Dong Quai increases blood circulation and brings fresh blood and nutrients to the different system and organs of the body. In the female reproductive system, it heals damaged tissues, reduces scar tissue and adhesion formation, removes dead tissues, toxins and metabolic wastes products. Dong Quai Tea also relieves pain, cramps, menopausal symptoms and such as are associated with premenstrual syndrome. 7. Goldenseal Root. This is an antibiotic, antimicrobial, and an anti-inflammatory herb. It is capable of reducing pain and inflammation in the uterus and by extension; it prevents the formation of adhesion and scar tissue. It strengthens the immune system and keeps the uterus healthy.
Other herbs that are usually employed in the management of fibroids are Yarrow tea, Echinacea, False unicorn root and green tea.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .