 Zuckerberg (middle) with Nollywood stars at Afrinolly Studio, Ikeja, Lagos.  Billed to open one October 15 and runs through October 19, 2018, the free training is aimed at empowering creative communities across Nigeria and providing expert mentorship and advice, this week-long intensive workshop is designed for up and coming storytellers, who are focused on developing short-form content for digital platforms. Led by Dayna Lynne North and Amy Aniobi, the programme will take 20 aspiring local storytellers and explore tailored topics such as creating compelling characters, grabbing and keeping your audience, practical first steps to creating your project, as well as best practices on how to create and promote content on digital platforms such as Facebook and Instagram. Sherry Dzinoreva, Policy Programs Manager, Sub-Saharan Africa at Facebook said, “We’re thrilled and honoured to be able to work with Afrinolly, Dayna and Amy to bring this special one-off workshop to Lagos. As leaders in their creative fields, they have a wealth of experience to offer ambitious Nigerian storytellers. At Facebook, our goal is to continue to support and invest in diverse creative talent, not just in Nigeria, but across the continent and this is just another step in highlighting our commitment.” Once chosen, 20 selected participants will also receive support to build their projects after the bootcamp, with three-weeks of free office space and mentorship from Afrinolly’s team of screenwriters. Open to candidates 18 years plus, interested attendees must be based in Nigeria, and have a script or piece of content currently in development. Commenting on the project, Dayna Lynne North and Amy Aniobi said, “We are thrilled at the opportunity Facebook is providing! Nigeria is an exciting country, full of amazing creatives, talents and visionaries. For one of us, this is a chance to go back home to our roots and share the knowledge and experiences we’ve gained over the years; for the other, it’s an incredible opportunity to mentor the next generation. We are both passionate to meet the Naija Storybuilders and get started.” Chike Maduegbuna, CEO, Afrinolly added: “The Naija Storybuilders Bootcamp is a further step in our partnership with Facebook. Having Dayna and Amy as central to this, and here in Lagos, is a great opportunity for the chosen 20. I look forward to seeing how they progress in their storytelling journeys.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .