 Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola  In a state broadcast, yesterday, thanking the people, Oyetola said the victory was for the right of every citizen to participate in governance.He stated: “The victory is an affirmation by the people of Osun in the APC government that has been on the saddle in the past eight years and the acceptance of our ideology. It is a positive affirmation of our people-friendly policies and the way we have steered the ship of state, even under the most challenging circumstances. “This is ultimately a victory for the people of Osun that have been given a voice and a hope of democratic and responsible leadership.“I will like to commend and congratulate INEC for successfully conducting a free, fair and credible governorship election. I congratulate also our party, the APC, in Nigeria and Southwest, for its well-deserved victory at the polls, wrapping up the Southwest states and giving it the opportunity to use the progressive platform it offers for accelerated development of the region. “I also congratulate Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, under whom I cut my political teeth and whose tenure was on trial during the election. “I regard the mandate given to me by the good people of Osun as sacred and I am taking it seriously. Of course, I have been part of the new beginning that started eight years ago. “Nevertheless, in continuing the glorious path on which I am now very familiar, it is a new beginning for me. I am committing myself the more to the good governance of Osun and the welfare of the people. “I will run an inclusive and participatory government. I will consult with the party, workers, communities, traditional rulers, the civil society and the people of the state in their heterogeneity. I will engage the youth, tap into their ideas and enable them to unleash their creative energy in a positive way. “I pledge to serve God and humanity and the people of Osun with my whole being, without prejudice to religion, ethnicity, race and ideology.”Oyetola also thanked all those involved one way or another and whop made it possible for him to win the election, including Senator Iyiola Omisore of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and Osun Alliance of Collaborating Political Parties (ACPP), who endorsed and supported his candidature. Meanwhile, the APC, while congratulating Oyetola over his victory, maintained that the feat was a solid attestation of the people’s support for the change agenda of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration.In a statement by its Acting National Publicity Secretary, Mr., Yekini Nabena, the party described the victory as another morale boosting victory ahead of next year’s general elections.
 
It commended Osun electorate for “bravely defending their votes,” despite what it termed “the spirited attempts by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to rig and disrupt the election,” assuring the Osun electorate that it would continue to work in their interest through responsive and people-centred governance.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .