 David Anyaele  The (LSSPL) assented in 2011 by the former Governor of Lagos state, Babatunde Fashola exists to protect and uphold the rights of PWDs and also ensure they have access to societal privileges like every other citizen.For the implementation of LSSPL, Lagos State Office Of Disability Affairs (LASODA) was established. However, implementing the LSSPL and its compliance has been a challenge. Mr. David O. Anyaele, Executive Director of CCD said that an assessment was conducted in the state to measure the level of implementation and compliance, which is the primary duty of the PWDs community. The assessment on personnel and facilities of Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) at Lagos State secretariat, shows poor compliance of the LSSPL, he said.
“The personnel were aware of the LSSPL, but do not have thorough knowledge of its provisions. The buildings are fairly accessible, but vital facilities were missing. Public buildings and spaces beyond the MDAs were poorly designed and inaccessible, which falls short of the provisions of LSSPL,” Anyaele stated. Mr. Kola Ogunbiyi of CCD asserted that the inaccessibility of public buildings and facilities shut PWDs from mainstream society. According to him, there are intelligent PWDs and their input are needed for development, but their knowledge cannot be tapped from, if they cannot access the venue of meetings and workshops in high-rise buildings. “Somebody on a wheelchair for instance cannot get to the level where you have meetings. This makes it impossible to tap from their knowledge and as a result, we exclude them from governance, development and social issues,” he stated.To ensure proper implementation and compliance of the law, CCD has called on the Local Government Chairmen to join the state government in reaching out to the PWDs, letting them know there is a law protecting them as well as making provisions for them at the grassroots.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .