Some of television’s biggest and brightest stars walked the red carpet for the 70th Primetime Emmy Awards which held at LA’s Microsoft Theatre yesterday. From those that had us gushing and cooing about their outfits to those who gave us cringe worthy moments, below are some of the best-dressed stars at the event. Jessica Biel Image Source: GETTY IMAGES | Photo Credit: FRAZER HARRISON Many ladies attended the 70th Emmy Awards in white but actress Jessica Biel had us thinking we just saw an angel with her Ralph and Russo outfit. Immaculately crisp and architecturally interesting are just some of the words that describes her outfit and even though she didn’t win in her category, this dress makes her a winner in our books. Renee Bargh Image Source: Getty Images The Emmy Awards is about celebrating creativity and Australian TV host, Renee Bargh brought on the drama with this dramatic black number. Taraji P. Henson Image Credit: GETTY IMAGES/TODD WILLIAMSON/NBC We fell in love with her character Cookie for being so bold in “Empire” and we can only say bless Taraji for showing up in something this dramatically bright and bold Giambattista Valli dress. Joey King Image Source: GETTY | Photo Credit: IMAGESVALERIE MACON) The Kissing Booth star, Joey King has us craving raspberry so badly with this almost yummy Zac Posen gown that could give Taraji a run for the most dramatic of the night. Angela Sarafyan Image Source: GETTY IMAGES | Image Credit: FRAZER HARRISON Only one word that aptly describes this Christain Siriano gown and that is glorious with a capital G. Angela was one of the first people to walk the red carpet and we are sure glad she did because she trailed for the others to follow with this sweeping gown. Chrissy Teigen Image Source: GETTY IMAGES| Image Credit: FRAZER HARRISON We expected a little more from Chrissy Teigen but this Zuhair Murad dress still has an attitude and realness about it that makes it a good fit. Issa Rae Image Source: GETTY IMAGES, Photo Credit: JOHN SHEARER Is it a dress over pants or is it a jumpsuit with a train? It does not matter because this dreamy custom Vera Wang outfit is a must have for every fashion lover. Zasie Beetz Image Source: GETTY IMAGES | FRAZER HARRISON When Rihanna sang, “Phresh Outta The Runway”, we are sure this is what she had in mind. This velvety number went down the runway mere days ago at New York Fashion Week, and there is no doubt its luxurious and lush textures suits Zasie just right. Thandie Newton Image Credit: FRAZER HARRISON Pink is a girl’s favourite colour and Thandie Newton is a modern day Barbie in this uber-sophisticated Brandon Maxwell dress.