PHOTO: GlamAfrica Ebonylife Films, producers of blockbuster movies, The Wedding Party 1 and 2 and The Royal Hibiscus Hotel, have released its first teaser for the upcoming movie, Chief Daddy, set to hit the cinemas on December 14, 2018. Fans can look forward to another five teasers, revealing hilarious scenes from the film, before the official, full-length trailer next month. The film has a stellar cast of both veteran and new acts in Nollywood including, Bisola Aiyeola, Funke Akindele, Zainab Balogun, Shaffy Bello, Lepacious Bose, Ini Edo, Dakore Egbuson-Akande, Linda Ejiofor, Mawuli Gavor, Kate Henshaw, Ayo Lijadu, Jude ‘MI’ Abaga, Richard Mofe-Damijo, Beverly Naya, Chinedu ‘Nedu’ Ani, Uti Nwachukwu, Taiwo Obileye, Chioma ‘Chigul’ Omeruah, Rachel Oniga, Beverly Osu, Nkem Owoh, Patience Ozokwor and Joke Silva. Also featured is entertainer, rapper and two-time AMVCA winner, Folarin ‘Falz’ Falana, who may be the breakout star of this movie. Chief Daddy was written by Bode Asinyanbi and directed by Niyi Akinmolayan. The movie is centred on the life of billionaire industrialist, Chief Beecroft, who is known to be a pillar of the society. He is extravagant, exuberant and larger-than-life but extremely benevolent, as he serves as a benefactor to everyone around him including a large extended family of relatives, household staff, and mistresses. All seems well in the Beecroft household until Chief Daddy passes away and suddenly the ‘wheels begin to turn’ and things go awry. The teaser gives a sneak peek into the movie, showing the pivotal moment when Chief Daddy dies and the events that unfold immediately afterwards. What follows reveals enormous surprises; twist and turns that prove larger than the life Chief Daddy lived. This must-see movie is perfect to watch with family and friends during the holidays. Executive producer, Mo Abudu, expressed her excitement about the movie to The Guardian, saying, “Chief Daddy is a fun, family-friendly movie that we believe will appeal to a variety of moviegoers. We look forward to giving moviegoers an amazing film experience during the end-of-year holidays,” she said. With a mix of eccentric, dramatic and comical characters, an upbeat soundtrack and an intriguing storyline, Chief Daddy promises to engage audiences, giving them a cinema experience like no other. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .