 Mr Real performing at the show  The concert is usually categorised by intense musical performances, hilarious stand-up comedy, funny and poetic eulogies, entertaining games, role-play, as well as enlightening brand education and prize award. As expected, the Lagos edition was nothing short of the aforementioned attributes as promised by the brand’s portfolio manager Emmanuel Agu. Ahead of the gig, Agu had assured fans that the brand was increasing the stakes at the Lagos edition and the edition, which was centered around giving back to Legend’s esteemed consumers for their loyalty on the stout brand. “I am excited that another “confam” experience has hit the city of Lagos, it’s another promise delivered, fans and lovers of entertainment were brought closer to their celebrities, esteemed consumers were rewarded for their unending loyalty to Legend Extra Stout, we have gone to the grass-root and it could only have been the Legend Real Deal Experience,” Agu said at the event. Co-host Ifu Ennada and comedian De Don gained mastery of the audience with an epic anchoring performance, which kept the audience at the edge of their seats all night long.Fans and lovers of music were treated to great performances from the street kings Mr Real and Slimcase, as they left the crowd asking for more. The duo thrilled fun-loving partygoers with electrifying performances that lit up the night I their separate gigs. Their energetic stage performances were deafening, the audience began an unending sing-along from Mr Real’s Legbegbe to Slimcase’s Otumba Lamba; it was an experience worth witnessing. The audience not wanting to be outdone by the music stars took up to the stage to display some energetic dance moves. Over the years, Legend Real Deal Experience has been known for its legendary ‘taste, tell and win’ competition, and this edition did not prove any different. The competition is a blind taste test and participants were made to tell the difference between the taste of Legend Extra Stout and other stout brands. Winners went home with exciting prizes like flat screen TVs, generators and refrigerators, among other household items, It was an ecstatic feeling to the amusement of some members of the audience who were thrilled by how consumers blind spotted the unique taste of Legend from others. The stellar performances were enough to spice up the night. Performances from other musical artists and rib cracking comedy placed the icing on the cake. Fans were thrilled all night long. They commended Legend Extra stout for solely putting up an amazing show.The Real Deal Experience show happens to be Nigeria’s biggest music and comedy show conceived by Legend Extra Stout – the unique bitter tasting premium stout, fully brewed from the finest natural ingredients and bottled under the best international quality standards. 