 All Progressive Congress (APC) rally in Iwo… yesterday  The African Democratic Congress (ADC) has promised to oust the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and also shock the major opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the forthcoming election. At its convention themed “Building a Model Disciplined Political Party” which drew 5,600 delegates to Osogbo at the weekend, the party boasted that its candidate, Alhaji Fatai Akinbade, would defeat the APC and PDP candidates to emerge winner if the election will be free and fair.National Chairman of the ADC, Chief Ralph Nwosu, said the programme was held in the state to boost the efforts of the party’s campaign team by telling Osun people that there could be no better candidate to govern the state in the next four years than Akinbade and his running mate, Justice Folahanmi Oloyede (rtd). “On September 22, I assure you that the good people of Osun State, who have been yearning for good, inclusive and responsible governance, will shun money politics, no matter the billions being put aside for vote buying by the ruling government and others. They will vote their conscience. “Some people have said ‘take their money, it is your right, but vote your conscience and don’t mortgage your future.’ Whatever the case may be, I know, from what we have seen here, the turnout at our different rallies, the different letters by support groups, that the ruling party will be shocked at the outcome of the election. “The people know who has represented them well, those who have not stolen government money and are here to serve the people and take them out of poverty. Akinbade has demonstrated all through his years in service that his priority is Osun people and nothing else. His deputy has even sacrificed her career, defending workers’ rights. They have not forgotten this, and are waiting for September 22 to right the wrongs with their votes,” Nwosu said.Meanwhile, Akinbade has charged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), observers and other stakeholders to ensure that the election slated for September 22 is free, fair and credible. Akinbade particularly implored INEC to make good its pledge to make the election credible by checkmating vote buying and other shenanigans identified during the governorship poll held two months ago in Ekiti State. The ADC candidate spoke while playing host to a group of international election observers from South Africa under the aegis of Pan African Women Project headed by Dr. Eno Udensi.He said the charge had become expedient in view of the alleged growing apprehension by the people that the coming election might be rigged in favour of the ruling party. In a statement by his media office, Akinbade said: “Though INEC has been assuring us that it would conduct a free and fair election, by, especially, checking vote buying and other related electoral crimes, we want them to actualise this by matching words with action. We don’t want the commission’s assurances to be a smokescreen at the end of the day.” The former secretary to the state government noted that of late, rumour had been rife of plans to by the commission to compromise the election in favour of a particular party.“I am appealling to you observers and other related stakeholders that will be involved in our election, to ensure the natural votes of the people was not fractured under any guise.” Akinbade said the ADC, as a party, was prepared not only to participate in the election, but to come out victorious “having been adjudged by the people as the best” among the contending parties angling for the coveted governorship seat.He promised that the ADC would not be involved in any untoward electoral activity, advising all those that would pilot the affairs before and after the election to be unbiased umpires. The candidate warned that any form of underhand dealing in the contest could brew contempt and crisisEarlier, Udensi said they were working round the clock to ensure the election is hitch-free, adding that vote buying and other related electoral crimes would be closely monitored.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .