 Islam extremists, Boko Haram  The Director, Defense Information, Brig-Gen. John Agim, told The Guardian yesterday in Abuja that some politicians may want to use the insecurity in the northeast as a campaign rallying point, prior to the elections. He noted that the military was still studying the situation, so as to significantly contain any threat that might arise before the general elections. The Defense spokesperson noted that the assault on the insurgents by the military has reduced in recent times because of the rainy season, but assured Nigerians that there was no threat to free and fair elections in the country next year. He accused some journalists of helping to hype the propaganda of the insurgents, saying it appears the terrorists alerted some journalists before carrying out any attack in the region. Similarly, a pro-democracy and non-governmental organisation, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA), has said the renewed attacks by the insurgents were politically motivated ahead of the elections. It said the resurgence was possibly to spark off apprehension among Nigerians and likely to meet up with the gradually unfolding plots to self-perpetuate political powers in Nigeria. Speaking with The Guardian, its National Coordinator, Emmanuel Onwubiko, called on the United Nations (UN) to investigate who their sponsors are and put a proper perspective on why their activities have remained insurmountable. Onwubiko regretted that the releases of captured terrorists by the current administration was suspicious, as their release has led to them returning to the battlefields to wage war against the Nigerian state, adding: “The renewed upsurge of terrorist attacks by well-armed and sophisticated Boko Haram terrorists close to a major election is politically motivated.” He noted that some elements in the military fighting the war have turned it into a business franchise, where cases of corruption usually take place in the procurement of weapons. “Again, some elements within the Nigerian military have turned the counter-terror war into a business franchise for self-enrichment, which is why there are lots of cases of corruption, lack of transparency and accountability in the procurement of weapons. “There is a high suspicion that the top hierarchy of the military are defrauding the Nigerian state and buying substandard weapons,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .