President Muhammadu Buhari signs the 2018 budget at the State House, Abuja. BAYO OMOBORIOWO Nigeria’s president Muhammadu Buhari will pay 45 million naira to purchase the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) nomination form to contest re-election into office. The APC announced it commenced sales of forms for all its elective offices, as well as a timetable for its primary elections. APC, at its recently concluded National Executive Council (NEC) adopted the use of direct primaries to elect candidates for next years general elections. In the timetable, signed by the National Organising Secretary of the party Emmanuel Ibediro the APC said the activities will commence with the sale of forms from September 5 to 10. The presidential primary is scheduled to hold on September 20 while governorship primaries will be conducted on September 25. According to the timetable, members of the party aspiring to contest for the presidency are to pay N40m and N5m for the nomination and expression of interest forms respectively. The presidential nomination form is fixed at 40 million naira and expression of interest form at 5 million naira. Aspirants for state governorship will have to pay 22.5 million naira for nomination forms, and 2.5 million naira for expression of interest. In the same vein, those vying for the Senate, House of Representatives, and House of Assembly seats are to purchase the forms for N7m, N3.85m, and N850,000 respectively. The APC said all payments should be made in full directly into its designated bank accounts. APC National Working Committee explained that the schedule was in line with the party’s guidelines for the conduct of primaries for the forthcoming polls as approved by its National Executive Committee (NEC). Presidential Primary is slated to hold Saturday 22nd September. Governorship Primaries will hold Wednesday 26th – Thursday 27th September. Thursday 27th September and Saturday 29th September are scheduled for legislative primaries to elect candidates for Senatorial elections and for House of Representatives elections. House of Assembly and FCT Area council primaries are to elect state house of assembly and area council candidates will hold on Wednesday 3rd October. The National Convention to ratify/ elect presidential candidate will hold 6th October. The party said all aspirants for presidential, governorship, Senate and House of Representative elections must pick their forms at the party’s national secretariat while aspirants for state houses of assembly have the option to purchase their forms either at their respective state party secretariat or the national secretariat. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .