Happy birthday, Beyonce. Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter was born on this day in 1981. Today, we celebrate her birthday with some of the times she broke the internet to smithereens. No doubt that anything she does breaks the internet, whether it’s revealing a baby bump or dropping a surprise album. And, we must say, it’s still broken. Beyonce reveals baby bump at the Video Music Awards 2011. Photo: US Weekly After she killed it with her thrilling performance of Love on Top at the 2011 MTV VMAs by hitting all those high notes at the end, she dropped the mic, unbuttoned her jacket and lovingly rubbed her growing bump for the whole world to see. That announcement got 8,868 tweets per second and even made it to the Guinness World Records. She later went on to break the internet again when she gave birth to Blue Ivy. Beyonce album cover. Photo: Wikipedia No one knew that Beyonce was making new music. So imagine our surprise when she dropped her self-titled album, Beyonce in December 2013. It was Christmas come early for the Beyhive. Read More: How To Recreate Beyoncé’s Natural Makeup Look From Vogue September Cover Beyonce album cover. Photo: New York Post In 2016, Beyonce dropped her sixth solo album, Lemonade and it threw the internet in total disarray for two reasons. Firstly, it came as a surprise, and secondly, “Becky with the good hair”. Michelle, Beyonce and Kelly performing at the Pepsi Super Bowl XLVII Halftime Show on February 3, 2013, in New Orleans, Louisiana. Photo: B. Scott We may not all be for the Super Bowl itself, but those halftime presentations are everything! This time, the Destiny’s Child brought back hits and it was, honestly, everything! Jay Z and Blue Ivy join Beyonce on stage at the 2014 MTV VMAs. Photo: HOT 104.1 After her delightful performance of songs from her self-titled album, Jay-Z and Blue Ivy presented Bey with the Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award in 2014 in a touching moment. She would later bring them back yet again for her iconic 2018 Coachella performances. Jay Z, Beyonce and Solange coming out of the elevator. Photo: YouTube A video of Beyonce’s sister, Solange, attacking Jay-Z in the elevator leaked and the internet went wild because Queen Bey was so chill about it all. What killed everyone the most was the fact that there was no sound. The couple later released a statement about the drama. They said, “As a result of the public release of the elevator security footage from Monday, May 5th, there has been a great deal of speculation about what triggered the unfortunate incident. But the most important thing is that our family has worked through it. Jay and Solange each assume their share of responsibility for what has occurred. They both acknowledge their role in this private matter that has played out in the public. They both have apologised to each other and we have moved forward as a united family.” Beyonce at the 2015 Met Gala. Photo: Cosmopolitan If you’re wondering how to show up fashionably late and make the most dramatic entrance known to man, you can take a cue from the Queen herself. Beyonce and Blue Ivy at the 2016 VMAs. Photo: Instagram Beyonce wore a dress by Francesco Scognamiglio. Four-year-old Blue Ivy wore a couture dress by Mischka Aoki that cost almost $11,000 (N3.96 million). Beyonce baby bump. Photo: Instagram The internet broke officially when she shared that she was having twins with the best pregnancy photoshoot ever!