 Sylvia Ajayi  She continued: “Looking back now, serving in local churches, singing was my preparation ground for elevation. This is when doors started opening doors locally and globally. Ever since, God has been faithful. I have released one album, four singles. My music has been nominated for awards in this year’s Gospel Music Awards holding in Italy. I have been nominated in the international category as Best Song of the Year, Best Artiste of the Year and also Best Video of the Year. I was also nominated nationally as the Discovery of the year in Africa Gospel Music Awards UK where I had opportunity to also minister alongside great artistes such as Lara George, Faithchild, Diana Hamilton and so on.” The mother of two said, “inspiration behind my songs has always been the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is my instructor and director in all I do. I love to write positive songs that glorify God and that would also bless and transform lives and these could be through revelation, personal experiences, scriptures etc. Currently, I am working on a big project.” She continued, “I did a live audio and DVD album recording with nine tracks live in London. So, we are in the final stages of the project. I am so excited about it, because this project stretched my faith and my skills.” According to the lady, who is equally an entrepreneur, she is working on learning how to play the piano and violin.Sylvia informed that her new album is coming out soon. Her words: “Expect spirit-filled music, revival sound, heavenly sound, healing literally taken place as people listen and key in, people will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. Salvation will come. This album is packed. It has taken two years to get this out and I have gone through a lot with it. This is the reason why I know that God is in it to do something supernatural in the lives of people.” 
 
 Sharing her views on gospel artistes collaborating with secular artistes, she said, “I do not have any issue with it, if it is God’s instructions or directions for it. I believe that God looks at the heart while men see the outward appearance. I honestly, will collaborate with people whom the Holy Spirit directs or connects me to, and this could be anyone who know me. I believe we should not collaborate for fame or show but for God’s glory and purpose because if we come out of His plan and do our own agenda, it is our problem not God. I advise gospel artistes to have a true relationship with God and trust him over all men. Believe in yourself and walk in the boldness of God knowing that you are fearfully and wonderfully made.” 