If you are looking for a low carb meal, then the colourful carrot fufu is a good choice for you. Although it is made from carrots, it does not have the sweet taste of carrots. You can enjoy this colourful meal with any soup of your choice. Carrot Fufu | Source: Facebook Read More: Five Steps To Make Afang Soup Ingredients for Carrot Fufu  10 small carrots
½ teaspoon Psyllium Husk or ¼ teaspoon Xanthan Gum Carrot Fufu Combination 2 10 small carrots
¼ teaspoon Xanthan Gum Note: You should note that carrot fufu prepared with psyllium husk has the texture of eba while carrot fufu prepared with xanthan gum has the texture of semolina or semovita. For larger quantities, you can scale up the quantities of  the ingredients. Read More: How To Make Unripe Plantain And Sweet Potato Pottage Carrot Fufu | Source: Insta Stalker  Directions for Making Carrot Fufu Trim the shoots of the carrots and cut off any dark marks. If your carrots are too muddy, scrape them.
Grate the carrots.
Blend with as little water as possible and pour into a muslin bag or a chiffon cloth to remove the water. Save the water.
Wringe the chiffon cloth till there’s no water in the carrot pulp.
Put the carrot pulp into a pot on medium heat. Then start stirring.
When it heats up, check the time and continue stirring for 5 minutes. Add some of the water that came from the carrot if you notice it drying up and continue stirring.
After 5 minutes, add the psyllium husk or xanthan gum and continue stirring for 2 more minutes or till a moldable dough is formed.
Add a bit of the juice again, cover and cook for half a minute.
Mix again till well combined.
Wrap with a plastic film to keep it moldable. They say that a plastic film causes cancer but to be honest, I am yet to find another utensil that can do a good job of keeping this carrot fufu moldable especially if you use the mixtures from combination 1 or 2. So to use or not to use the plastic film? You decide.
That’s it! Watch the video below for a visual process. You can also watch a video of how to make carrot fufu below: 