The UEFA Champions League, Europe’s top competition is set to resume today, leaving football fans in great anticipation as they look forward to watching their favourite clubs take part in the prestigious tournament. With the first match between one of the two giants in Europe, the Anfield outfit, Liverpool, will be hosting Ligue 1 leaders, promising a thrilling encounter. Yes! This is the Champions League! Liverpool lost their last UCL match, which was the final of the 2017/18 champions league against Real Madrid in Kyiv. The Reds will be looking forward to starting to kick-off on a positive side and they face the Parisians parading Neymar, Kylian Mbappe and Edison Cavani. The two sides have registered five wins from five fixtures in their respective leagues, which makes it difficult to predict who will be taking the three points at the end of the day. Here are the four players to watch out for: Mohammed Salah Liverpool’s Egyptian midfielder Mohamed Salah applauds supporters as he leaves the pitch, substituted during the English Premier League football match between Liverpool and West Ham United at Anfield in Liverpool, north west England on August 12, 2018. / AFP PHOTO / Oli SCARFF / RESTRICTED TO EDITORIAL USE. No use with unauthorized audio, video, data, fixture lists, club/league logos or ‘live’ services. Online in-match use limited to 120 images. An additional 40 images may be used in extra time. No video emulation. Social media in-match use limited to 120 images. An additional 40 images may be used in extra time. No use in betting publications, games or single club/league/player publications. / The Egyptian international footballer scored 10 goals from 12 Champions League appearances last season and he has declared himself fit for the season with two goals to his name in five premier league games this season. Salah, 26, a pacey winger with incredible talent and unbelievable skills, capable of creating magical moments and deciding the fate of important matches just as he has shown us so far this term. The home fans will be counting on him to continue with his impressive performances when they face PSG today. Neymar Paris Saint-Germain’s Brazilian forward Neymar celebrates after scoring during the French L1 football match between Paris Saint-Germain and Dijon on January 17, 2018 at the Parc des Princes stadium in Paris. / AFP PHOTO / CHRISTOPHE SIMON Another brilliant forward that is capable of stealing the show at Anfield today. PSG was without the Brazil International in their last league game against St Etienne, indicating he was properly rested for the Anfield job tonight.
Neymar might be operating as a No. 10, to allow him more penetration in the game. However, Thomas Tuchel has refused to reveal the exact position might play against the Reds. James Milner  Milner led the Champions League in assists last season; the midfielder’s industry and influence in the Liverpool team cannot be understated. While the attacking trio will be naturally lauded for their goal contributions, the unfussy manner with which Milner goes about his duties is impressive. Applying pressure, battling in midfield and starting counterattacks, Milner is one to watch in the understated midfield battle that will ensue at Anfield. Kylian Mbappe Paris Saint-Germain’s French forward Kylian Mbappe celebrates after scoring their third goal during the French L1 football match between Nimes and Paris Saint-Germain (PSG), on September 1, 2018 at the Costieres stadium in Nimes, southern France. Pascal GUYOT / AFP The France international teenager sky-rocketed towards stardom at the FIFA Russia 2018 World Cup. Fast and intelligent with the ball, Mbappe is key to PSG’s counter-attacks. Andy Robertson will need to stay on top of the game to stymie the danger from the teenager. Mbappe has risen to the occasion this season for PSG with four goals in two-and-a-half games for the Ligue 1 outfit. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .