 The MBGN 2018 finalists in a group picture  The decision to return to Bayelsa this year, according to the organisers, was as a result of a successful hosting of past editions of the pageant in 2013 and 2014, which got the full backing of the State Government. Holding under the theme Girl Child Education, this year’s show is in tune with the Bayelsa State Governor’s drive to democratise education and empower young people in the state. The finalists were selected for the competition after nationwide screening exercises in Enugu, Port Harcourt, Abuja and Lagos. They will now proceed on a two week long camp session, where they will get extensive training and grooming in choreography, cat-walking, poise and comportment in preparation for the main event under the tutelage of seasoned Hollywood casting agent, Juliette Hagermann. Speaking on this year’s pageant, Special Adviser on Tourism Development and Entertainment to the Bayelsa State Governor, Guy Murray-Bruce, who is also Nigeria’s National Director for Miss World and Miss Universe, pledged to use his office to attract high net worth business men and more visitors to the state, adding that the beauty pageant offers opportunity to popularize and promote the state’s tourism and cultural potentials. Mrs Ebizi Brown, the Deputy Chief of Staff to the Bayelsa State Governor, expects nothing less than a bigger and better show considering the experiences garnered from the previous stellar shows hosted by the state government. A former Secretary to the State Government Professor Steve Azaiki, who is the Chairman, Organizing Committee of the pageant, said the 2018 MBGN is expected to bring global attention to the State and indeed the Niger Delta of Nigeria. He said the event is a good opportunity for the people to show off its many educational institutions, world-class medical facilities, and tourist attractions such as Oloibiri Oil Museum, Brass beautiful sea and its white sands, the beauty of veteran poet, Gabriel Okara’s River Nun among other tourist attractions, which abound in the state. On her part, the Commissioner for Tourism Development in Bayelsa state Mrs Ebiere Musah, disclosed that the government is poised to exploit the 2019 most beautiful girl in Nigeria pageant to showcase the state in more positive light as well as the giant developmental strides of the Governor Dickson led-administration. The expected arrival of sponsoring companies and brands into the state as a result of the MBGN pageant is equally exciting to Mrs Funkazi Koroye Crooks, the Commissioner for Trade, Industry and Investment, who said it’s in tune with the strategic vision of the government to attract the private sector, to open businesses in the state and create more job opportunities for the youths While calling on more sponsors to tap into the pageant’s huge benefits and exposure, the Chairman of the Most Beautiful Girl In Nigeria Production team, Bola Salako informed that the grand finale will air live on Silverbird Television Dream Network, IBAN partner stations and some satellite channels. This year’s Most Beautiful Girl in Nigeria pageant, which is the 31st edition of the event that began in 1986, has provided a platform for many young women who have gone on to have successful careers in entertainment, media and politics. The list includes Linda Chuba Ikpeazu, Bianca Onoh Ojukwu, Omowunmi Akinnifesi, Regina Askia, Stephanie Okereke-Linus, and of course Agbani Darego, who won the Miss World crown in 2001, becoming the first black African to do so. The Bayelsa State Government, Arik Air, Occasions and Events, David Wej, Silverbird Group and Silverbird News 24 support the event this year. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .