Governor Udom Emmanuel declares his intention to run for a second time as Akwa-Ibom governor at a rally… August 25, 2018. Photo/Twitter/MrUdomEmmanuel The Peoples Democratic Party in Akwa Ibom has described the advice by All Progressive Congress stalwart, Mr. Eseme Eyiboh that, governor Udom Emmanuel should not contest for second term as a ‘supermarket’ statement. Speaking with journalists in his office Monday in Uyo, the party Publicity Secretary, Mr. Ini Ememobong, said the adviser has no knowledge of what he was talking about, stressing that Eseme was speaking for himself but not the people of Akwa Ibom state or Eket senatorial district where he claimed he was speaking for. “You can only gauge the advice of a person by looking at the person advising, when you look at the person that is advising, and you begin to compare, Eseme Eyiboh will be finding himself standing against the myriad of people who are appealing that Udom should run again. I am sure he knows that in 2013, he would have advised like he did that
Udom should not contest, but, Udom ran, not just ran, he ran successfully and he won. “The God of 2013, the God of 2015 is still alive today, and don’t forget that the campaign slogan of the governor is, Only God”, he said. He listed some achievements that would guarantee the state governor a second term to include, investment in power infrastructure, road construction, and interest free loan given to traders in the state to boost their trade. “I don’t know where Eseme Eyiboh lives, but, if he lives in Uyo, and he has been witnessing the extended power supply, I am not sure he knows that it is done under Udom’s government, having replaced the power infrastructure. The Minister of Power came here and said with his mouth that no other state government has invested in power much as Akwa Ibom state government.” “I don’t know whether Eseme Eyiboh has been to Eket recently, when he gets to Atabong, I am sure he will still think that it was the military that constructed the road. I am not sure that Eseme Eyiboh has any relationship with any trader, when these people begin to celebrate the N2billion interest free loan. I am not sure Eseme Eyiboh understands that it is the state government that does that”, he added. The former lawmaker who hails from Esit Eket Local Government Area, which is one of the local government areas that make up Eket federal constituency, is the Board Chairman of Cross River Basin Development
Authority has alleged that the three-year-old administration of Governor Emmanuel has not been fair to Eket people. Meanwhile, a House of Representatives aspirant in the state, Mr. Edet Ikotidem, has condemned in strong terms comments credited to US President, Donald Trump, saying that, he cannot determine who would rule Nigeria. It would be recalled that, Trump allegedly described Mr. President as ‘lifeless’. But fielding questions from journalists, the House of Representatives aspirant for Itu/Ibiono Ibom Federal Constituency noted that, since Trump have lost his integrity with his controversial presidency; he has no justification to criticize the actions of President Muhammadu Buhari or even any other President in any part of the world. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .