Former Super Eagles’ Captain, Nwankwo Kanu (right) mentoring pupils at a recent Greensprings/Kanu Football Clinic. Principal of Greensprings School (Elementary), Anthony campus, Mrs. Kemi Famiyude has urged schools to regularly engage their pupils in athletic activities, saying it teaches both soft and hard skills to students. Famiyude, who argues that sport ensures a healthy society, told The Guardian at the weekend by being involved in sporting activities, students learn the importance of hard work, perseverance and how to grasp opportunities. According to her, “Over the years, experts in the educational field have come to identify the critical importance of sports, games and recreation in the learning process. “Greensprings is one institution that is big on sports. Our approach to education is one that incorporates sport into our educational framework. Sport is essential to learning as it teaches children life skills like teamwork, leadership and patience. So schools should not focus only on academics but also on sports. “An analysis of our sporting timetable during every school year only reveals the emphasis we place on sports as a fundamental part of our educational structure. We understand the importance of sports and physical education in the psychological and physiological development of our children and this is why as a school, our students have their Physical Education lessons two times a week,” she said. Citing Dr. Jomills H. Braddock’s research findings on the impact of sports in learning, she added, “students who participate in sports appear to perform academically better than their counterparts, as sports require teamwork in the pursuit of mutual goals to achieve success. With sports, young people learn to recognize and value the unique and important contributions of their diverse teammates.” Famiyude disclosed that the school organises several events tied to sport activities during the school year, some of which include basketball clinics, sports day and Greensprings Kanu Football Camp (GKFC). “Our dedication to developing our students in this key area has led to our emergence as champions in various competitions. In 2016, our football team emerged national champions at the GTBank Masters Cup and the Nottingham Cup in the United Kingdom. GKFC has also produced nine scholars till date some of which are part of the Nigeria under 15 and under 17 teams,” she said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .