Senator Shehu Sani Nigerian lawmaker, senator Shehu Sani, has predicted victory for president Muhammadu Buhari in next year’s general elections despite “failure” in certain areas. The senator representing Kaduna central senatorial district said this on a Channels Television programme, Politics Today. Sani said some achievements recorded by the president will be advantageous to his chances of getting votes of the Nigerian masses during the 2019 general elections. “I never had a doubt President Muhammadu Buhari will win the 2019 elections because I believe there are lots of achievements that could be attached to his stewardship in the last three and half years,” Sani said. “We can also see challenges and also some failures on certain sides but in the general note, I believe that those who voted for him in 2015 still have belief and hope in him as someone who can lead them to where they want to be.” Sani’s allegiance to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) had earlier been questioned, with accusations he was involved in anti-party politics. It was speculated he had concluded plans to join the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) after criticising Buhari. “What they have been saying, there is nothing wrong with it (criticising Buhari) because it will keep the ruling party on its toes, but that will not in any way stop the president from as the next leader of Nigeria,” Sani said. “And I am of the firm belief that the people on the ground, those who voted him into office will still vote him again. “I know that there are challenges which we are facing, there are issues which have not been addressed, but in the general sense, he will still be the candidate for 2019.” The senator, who has not been in a rosy relationship with his state governor Nasir el-Rufai, said he was more concerned in ensuring they cooperate to win next year’s election in the state. He said, “This is the time to put heads and hearts together and to win the election. There is no doubt about it that the opposition in Kaduna is formidable. They have the big names and people who are also well rooted in the grassroots. “So, it is left for us to decide on what to do and I think for any progressive who is genuinely progressive, should see that the party’s interest comes first.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .