• Ecobank pledges continuous support
The gentlemen of Ikoyi Club’s Golf Section will take to the course today in search of laurels and bragging rights at the on-going Nigeria Cup, which teed off last weekend. The professionals had their day yesterday in the competition, which offers cash prizes, gift items and other material benefits to excellent players. The Local Organising Committee (LOC) Chairman, Babatunde Johnson said the competition has been an enriching experience for participants, adding that all is set for the “veterans, sponsors and guests to test their wits” today. The competition with the theme ‘Who the cap fits’ will end tomorrow after the amateur golfers’ competition, but the closing ceremony will hold on Sunday at the MUSON Centre. Apart from the special Independent Day Kitty on Wednesday, the professionals played over 36-holes yesterday for the N2 million prize money. Johnson affirmed, “a special N5 million prize has been set aside for any golfer, who is able to play a hole-in-one throughout the competition.” He explained that the LOC picked the MUSON Centre for Sunday’s closing ceremony because it was the official residence of the Premier during the First Republic. Meanwhile, Pan African bank, Ecobank has reaffirmed its commitment to the annual golf tournament organised by the Ikoyi Club 1938 to commemorate the country’s independence. Speaking on Ecobank’s sponsorship of the competition, Head of Consumer Marketing, Ikechukwu Kalu told The Guardian, “We are partnering with Ikoyi Club to make the Nigeria Cup more fun and more interesting for golfers. That is why we are throwing in a promo so that someone can win a trip to either South Africa or Dubai to play golf.” He revealed that the bank chose to come back to the tournament after a brief absence because of the physical and mental roles golf plays in a work force. “There are a lot to learn from golf.  It helps your thinking, planning and the way you organize yourself. So we believe it is good for even our staff.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .