 [File] Edwin Kiagbodo Clark  Former Governor of Kano State and a presidential aspirant under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, said: “The unlawful invasion of the residence of the elder statesman, Chief Edwin Clark, by men of the Nigerian police is another sad episode in the recent catalogue of embarrassment witnessed under the current administration.” Besides, the senator representing Kaduna Central, Shehu Sani, noted: “The raid on the house of Chief Edwin Clark is condemnable. The elder statesman should be treated with respect by security agencies knowing the implications of such an action. The police should apologise to him.” Also, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar lamented thus: “Yesterday’s invasion of the residence of the elder statesman, Chief Edwin Clark, stands condemned and again underscores the extent that this administration can go to discredit and debase the opposition.” Meanwhile, the umbrella body of the Niger Delta region, Pan-Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF), has said that its National Leader, Clark, may sue the IGP for the invasion of his residence. PANDEF National Publicity Secretary, Anabs Sara-igbe, who disclosed this yesterday, said the elder statesman had advised the police to make a public apology to him and also inform the world that nothing incriminating was found on him. Similarly, former spokesperson of the Ijaw National Congress (INC), Victor Burubo, said the claim by the IGP that he was not aware that police raided Clark’s residence was preposterous. Also, former Caretaker Committee Chairman and presidential aspirant of the PDP, Ahmed Mohammed Makarfi, has condemned the raid and urged Nigerians to resist turning the nation’s democracy into dictatorship. A statement by his spokesman yesterday said: “The attention of Senator Ahmed Mohammed Makarfi has been drawn to the raid by personnel of the Nigeria Police. Makarfi considers this assault as callous.” The Ijaw Youth Council (IYC) worldwide and the Bayelsa State government have condemned in the strongest terms the invasion of the Abuja residence of Clark. While the IYC stated that the invasion in the guise of looking for arms and ammunition clearly showed that Nigeria is descending towards a full-blown dictatorship, Governor Seriake Dickson, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media Relations, said the action smacked of so much desperation, callousness and insensitivity in a country under democratic governance. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .