Interdict leader of search team 
For carrying out an alleged unauthorised search on the Abuja home of elder statesman and Ijaw leader, Chief Edwin Kiagbodo (EK) Clark, the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris, has approved the dismissal of three inspectors. A statement by Force Public Relations Officer, DCP Jimoh Moshood yesterday in Abuja said ASP David Dominic, who led the team, was being investigated and would face his own punishment at the conclusion of the exercise. The spokesman said: “ASP David Dominic was queried and is being investigated for discreditable conduct, negligence of duty and an act unbecoming of a police officer. And if not checked, the serious misconduct could be inimical to the image of the force and is violation of the fundamental human rights of the elder statesman as provided for in the 1999 Constitution (as amended).” In view of the “gravity of the offences of the officer,” he added that his dismissal was imminent. Moshood named the disengaged inspectors as Godwin Musa, Sada Abubakar and Yabo Paul. Read More: Makarfi, Dickson, IYC, others condemn raid on Clark’s residence According to him, “consequently, the Inspector General of Police approved that ASP David Dominic should be on interdiction from service pending the determination of his case by the Police Service Commission.” He continued: “The IGP also approved and upheld the dismissal from service of Inspectors Godwin Musa, Sada Abubakar and Yabo Paul after the trio were tried under Oath in Orderly Room Trial for discreditable conduct, illegal duty, disobedience to lawful order and other misconduct contrary to the rule of law. “The suspect (informant), Ismail Yakubu from Waru Village, Apo District, Abuja, has been charged to Upper Area Court Mpape, Abuja for misleading the police.” The team, had on Tuesday, invaded the No 43, Haile Selassie Street, Asokoro abode of the 91-year-old former Federal Commissioner of Information at 12:30 p.m. and left by 2.30 p.m. after a two-hour search of the apartment.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .