 [FILE PHOTO] Kaduna State governor Nasir El-Rufai PHOTO: TWITTER/GOVERNOR KADUNA  The commissioner for education Alhaji Ja’afar Sani disclosed this when he appeared before the committee on education, science and technology to defend his ministry’s  2019 budget. He said  Governor Nasir El-Rufai has given the directives to source for fund for the continuation of the programme. The feeding programme as conceived by the Federal Government covers pupils from primary one to three. The ministry has a budget estimate of over N24 billion, with N14 billion earmarked as capital and N10.1 billion for recurrent. Directors in the ministry and  heads of parastatals accompanied the commissioner  to defend their budget. Sani explained that the ministry and its parastatals were able to achieve over 37% of their budget performance. Adding that the present administration of Governor El Rufai is up and doing to make Kaduna State excel in terms of providing quality education. The commissioner also disclosed that Kaduna state led the other northern states in the WASSCE results for 2017 and 2018. The state was 12th in the whole country, he said. The budget officer Kaduna State University, Badamasi Mukhtar Shika said over N7 billion was earmarked for next year’s budget. He said the bulk of the fund will be spent on capital projects such as building of additional lecture theatres and  provision of teaching and learning research facilities. The State Universal Basic Education led by its Chairman Nasiru Umar disclosed that about N6 billion will be spent by the board to build classrooms across the twenty three local government areas. The chairman added that efforts are made to ensure that each class does not contain more than forty pupils that a teacher can control amicably. He said the board would also ensure that only  competent teachers are recruited to teach. The chairman house committee on Education, Yusuf Liman said the committee would have been increased the ministry’s budget, but for the fact that  the state was unable to receive the  World Bank loan. “They have recorded a lot of achievements which we did not expect with the little resources they have at hand. We really appreciate their effort,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .