Sparkling drama, controversy and laughter were the major themes of the week. With a dress making a fashion impression, policemen chasing after a music star and political declarations, here are the stories that made our week: Chris brown’s royalty Chris Brown poses with Royalty. Photo: Twitter It appears Chris Brown does not want to “kill royalty with ‘enjoyment’ ”. His baby mama, Nia Guzman recently filed for more money to take care of his daughter Royalty. She claims that she should be paid $21,000 (N7,646,940). By her calculations, he owes her $250,000 (N89,880,000). According to Chris, he has always kept his side of the bargain and she already receives an excess of $6,628 from him, her earnings and spousal support. Kaepernick is Nike Colin Kaepernick campaigns for Nike. Photo: Boing Boing Shares of Nike tumbled early Tuesday after worries that the sport goods giant’s new marketing campaign around Colin Kaepernick could harm sales. Nike fell 2.9 percent to $79.78 in mid-morning trading, the first session following news that the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Kaepernick would be featured in Nike’s campaign to mark the 30th anniversary of the “Just Do It” slogan. Kaepernick is known for triggering a political firestorm after kneeling during the US national anthem in 2016 to protest racial injustice in the NFL. Omo baba olowo Charlamagne Tha God, Davido and DJ Envy. Photo: Pulse One of Nigeria’s biggest act, Davido was interviewed on the Breakfast show Power 105.1 hosted by Charlamagne Tha God and DJ Envy. During the hilarious and revealing interview, he said that his father sent about 50 policemen to arrest him. This period, he says, was about the time that Dami Duro came out. He added that the song received airplay and even the president at the time and his father’s friends also loved it. Feathered drama Bamike ‘BamBam’ Olawumi The Africa Magic Viewers Choice Award (AMVCA) held on Saturday, the 1st of September at Eko Hotels and Suites. The night saw celebrities arrived in all their drama. One dress that however gained a lot of traction on social media was former BBNaija housemate’s BamBam (real names: Bamike Olawunmi) feathered dress. While some of her critics described her dress as a failed attempt at copying Lady Gaga’s feathered dress at the Venice Film Festival, she told Guardian Life that the dress was a creative masterpiece. On your Mark. Set. Go! David Mark. Photo: Basehitz Media The political season in Nigeria is often ridden with drama and constant surprises. Former servants have expressed their interest to once more take up “servitude”. Former senate president David Mark has become the latest politician to express his interest and desire to rule Nigeria in 2019. Since his declaration, Nigerians have taken to social media to express their thoughts.