In a bid to correct the impression of linking music and drug abuse, Corner47 group of companies, has unveiled plans for the 2018 Lagos Disc Jockey (DJ) Carnival, aimed at discovering talents. The carnival, which Grand Finale holds October 1st, was according to the organisers, a five-year programme designed to further take youths off the streets through music. The project coordinator, Lagos DJ carnival, Mr. Gbolahan Odusanya, yesterday during an interview with Vanguard in Lagos, argued that the programme was to “ensure total positive mindset revolution shift from the present negativity linking Music and drugs.” He said: “This project is an emerging platform for empowering the Youths and showcasing the talents of the Youths in the State, hence the reason for a 5-year long term project we want inclusive participation of all the Youths in the State.” According to Odusanya, to inspire youths at the grand finale, DJ Khaleed from USA, DJ Niki Tall from Germany, our own DJ Cuppy and DJ Zenny will be Guest Performers and Judges to help discover new talents for the country. Explaining reasons for their invitation to the event, the coordinator stressed: “we are trying to do a lot for the youths and during our investigation, we discovered that the youths don’t have reputable role models. They claim that they don’t have interest in Government.” Aside the DJ’s performing at the event; he noted that the audience, youths, would be sensitized on the need to get away from drugs and how the company could assist them get over their challenges, saying, we target to get no fewer than 500, 000 youths off the streets. “This is to change their idea of the youths and make them contribute to Nigeria’s development. And one of the means they could also do that is getting them educated. This was the reason we partnered Fashcode to help source for local and international scholarship for the talents that would be discovered at the carnival,” Odusanya added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .