Disgraced comedian, Bill Cosby who was found guilty in April of drugging and sexually assaulting Andrea Constand in 2004 has been sentenced to three to ten years in prison. Constand is a former women’s basketball coach at Temple University in Philadelphia, where Cosby was a trustee, major donor and famous alumnus. A Philadelphia judge sentecned him to three to 10 years in prison for sexually assaulting a woman in 2004 and he was seen being led out of court in handcuffs “The day has come. Your time has come,” Montgomery County Common Pleas Judge Steven O’Neill told the 81 year old before sentencing him on three felony counts of aggravated indecent assault. Bill Cosyb’s Mugshot | Image Source: Twitter Cosby denied to speak during the two days hearing hearing. In reaction to the sentence, actress Janice Dickinson, who is one of dozens of other women who said they were victimized by Cosby, threw her hands onto her head in relief. Dickinson laughed slowly and loudly in the courtroom when Cosby was led out of the courtroom. “See I got the last laugh, pal,” the actress said as she looked at Cosby.   The prosecution and defense agreed to merge the three felony counts into one, exposing Cosby to a maximum of five to 10 years. The judge also ordered Cosby to pay Constand’s costs and a fine of $25,000.  Constand, her parents and her sister gave powerful victim-impact statements on Monday. “Your honor, I have testified, I have given you my victim impact statement,” Constand said. “The jury heard me, Mr. Cosby heard me and now all I am asking for is justice as the court sees fit.” Her mother, Gianna Constand, also delivered a statement, telling the courtroom, “This has been a very difficult situation for me and I have lost the ability to trust or share my feelings with anyone. I do not believe in my heart that Bill Cosby has ever cared or even considered the pain and suffering this mess has caused us, or the family as a unit.”  The three-week trial in April was the first high-profile sexual assault prosecution in the Me Too era with many rallying in support of women who have accused Cosby of sexual assault or rape.