A cross section of students at the screening excercise Founder, Dr. Obi Bags National Award, Pledges To Do More
In line with its vision of supporting indigent students from Ideato Nation educationally, the Equity Foundation recently held a screening exercise to selected students, who will be eligible for the 2019 free West African Examination Council (WAEC) and JAMB registration. Conceived by Dr. Pachal Chogozie Obi as a means of complementing the Imo State Government’s free education policy, the candidates were selected from over 600 students from across Ideato Federal Constituency, who participated in this year’s edition of the Foundation’s Free Holiday Class. The screening exercise, which involves an aptitude test, is part of processes mapped out to ensure that best brains but indigents students from the constituency have access to education. Speaking during the screening exercise held at National Secondary School, Ntueke, Ideato South, Imo State, Dr. Paschal Obi affirmed that he will continue to sustain every programme of the Foundation designed to positively touch lives especially, the less privileged. Obi, who was represented by the Director General of Equity Campaign Organization, Hon. Peter Ezeala, informed that a good number of students from the area would continue to benefit from his magnanimity, adding that his passion for education will add value to the lives of Ideato indigenes in general. He assured the students that the foundation would continue to do everything humanly possible to support Ideato students at all levels, while advising them to be good ambassadors of their respective families, communities. In his remarks, Coordinator Equity Foundation, Mr. Philip Okwara, who noted that the 2018 edition of the programme is the fourth in series, assured that there would be more improvements as the year roll by. Speaking on the project, Secretary General of the Foundation, Akwari Chika Onwukwe, said the turn out of students this year has encouraged the team to do more. “The turn out this year was massive; we had over 600 students that participated in the free holiday class. As it is, the founder is considering increasing the number of students for this year because we want more people to have opportunities.” Responding on behalf of the students, Miss Onwuatuegwu Obianuju thanked the founder/financier and facilitators of Equity Foundation for their good works, urging them not to relent in their effort to ensure that every child, no matter his/her background, gets access to education. Meanwhile, the founder of Equity Foundation Dr. Obi recently received a special award from the Optometric Association of Nigeria. The award, which is the highest honour the association can give to a deserving members, is as a result of his contributions to the medical profession. “Despite all I have done for the professional body both at the state and national level, by this award, Nigerian Optometric Association have asked me to do more and by God’s power, I will never let them down. Loss of sight is a terrible situation and we shall do anything humanly possible to improve eye care services in Nigeria,” he said. Obi explained, “through Equity Foundation, we have been able to touch several lives positively; hundreds of secondary school students across Ideato Nation in Imo State have benefited from the yearly free holiday lessons and free WAEC registration exercise. It’s a continuous activity, which is aimed at supporting education at the grassroots. We have also supported petty traders through our soft loan scheme where many people have been lifted up in their little businesses.” Recalling his experiences growing up as a child, Dr. Obi said, “It wasn’t easy for my parents as peasant farmers bringing us up; payment of my school fees was a herculean task up to university level. So, I have every reason to give back to the society. My greatest joy as a person is to see people happy at all times despite our life challenges. I enjoin all well meaning Nigerians to extend their hands of fellowship to all and sundry,” he said. Asked if he intends to run for political office any time soon, the former Principal Secretary to Imo State Governor said, “My lifestyle remains a puzzle to many inhabitants of my area and they have at one time or the other approached me to delve into politics. They are of the view that I will help them more if elected into public office. Personally, I see leadership as the epicenter of the society and it’s interwoven with politics since leaders emerge through political activities. However, quality leadership should be the watchword. It’s the situation of providing the necessary amenities for the populace, creating enabling environment for businesses to thrive and protection of lives and properties. That’s effective leadership, which every right thinking leader should strive to provide for his people,” he said. With passion for academic excellence, the non-governmental organisation, which came into existence some years ago, has become a major source of succor to poor parents, who cannot afford to register their wards for external examinations. As part of its give back, the foundation has taken it upon itself to touch the lives of these indigent students despite their background or religious inclinations. The scholarship programme has also helped to ameliorate the level of illiteracy in the zone.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .