 Femi Kuti  Tagged, ‘A Night with Femi Kuti’, Femi Kuti left the Afrikan Shrine for the poolside of the upscale hotel, brought the music to his fans, alongside Ruby Gyang, Nonso Bassey and Etuk Ubong, and delivering riveting performances for all who gathered. Boasting a career that spanned four decades, the Afrobeat maestro, alongside members of his Positive Force band took to the stage and opened his performance with the classic, Truth don die. As his music majesty, he exhibited and perfectly in sync with his band, his focus on getting every movement right, with his facial expressions and gaiety dance showing attributes of someone who has perfected the act of live performances. Femi also performed some of his other classic records like Africa For Africa, Politics na Big Business, Wonder Wonder and Bang Bang Bang, which generated a loud response from the crowd, before introducing songs from the new album, the future as he calls it. On what new influences are on the new album, Femi said, ‘’I have not listened to music since 2000, of course when you go to the mall or visit places, you hear music here and there, but I never go out of my way to listen to music.’’ “In the beginning, it was my father who got me listening to music but I read a Miles Davis book, where he said, I wanted to be original, so I stopped listening to music, so I took to that and stopped allowing influences,’’ he added. Asked what he hopes the album will inspire in people: ‘’I think it will inspire people, the title of the album says it, and we do have to understand that we are one people. The day I die, I want to die with a smile, I am 56 now, I am not afraid, because I know it will eventually come,’’ he declared. Speaking on how he manages to keep a positive mindset, the legend says: “we have to remain optimistic, there has to be balance in this life. I am sure many of you heard about my bassist absconding. I know this one, he points to his son, Omorinmade, who was on stage, will not abscond,’’ Made was recently announced as an official member of the Positive Force band. Femi Kuti made official announcement on his Instagram page on September 12, revealing that Made has already began touring with the rest of the band in Belgrade and Paris.“Omorinmade (my son) now a proud member of my band and I leaving tonight with the positive force band to Belgrade to perform with the Philamonic orchestra and Paris,” Femi wrote. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .