 Fatai Akinbade  Akinbade said the activities of the vandals would not deter the ADC from reaching out to the stakeholders in readiness for the election and winning the contest. “The attention of the Fatai Akinbade Campaign Organization has been drawn to a dangerous and destructive twist to the politics now being played by some faceless politicians who are apparently intimidated by the candidature of Akinbade of the ADC. “It is a known fact that Akinbade, by all definition, is a man of peace. He does not only preach it, he lives it in the most practical way imaginable. Anybody can testify to it that his (Akinbade) campaigns are issues-based. “It is disheartening, however, to note that in the last one week, especially since his campaign billboards sprouted across the state, some mischievous elements have destroyed about 10 billboards of Akinbade. The areas affected include Oke D.O, Modakeke, Stadium area, Osogbo, Akoda, Ede, Baptist High School, Ejigbo and Osu Junction in Atakumasa West local council area,” the statement read. According to the campaign organization, since the ugly trend started, party supporters who are well known to have keyed into the peaceful coexistence philosophy of Akinbade have increasingly become agitated and have been, on a daily basis, inundating the campaign office with calls over what they described as provocation. “ADC, as a disciplined party with law abiding members who don’t want to take laws into their hands, has reported the odious development to the relevant authorities with a view to checkmating this ugly sags which obviously can lead to a breakdown of law and order if not checked on time.” “However, we want to warn that our peaceful conduct and disposition should not in any way be mistaken for weakness. Seriously, the signs are ominous with the way things are. While we don’t want to sound alarming, we are, however, worried that if we keep recording incidences of vandalism, directed at Akinbade, his deputy, Justice Olamide Oloyede (rtd) and our great party, then the September 22 governorship election may be fraught with violence.” Akinbade appealed to party supporters across the state to remain calm and be law abiding.“Without violence, our party, the ADC, which is currently enjoying overwhelming support from the good people of the state, will win the forthcoming election regardless of the antics of the detractors who are intimidated by the clout and popularity of Akinbade. “This is God’s project which no man can circumvent or truncate under whatever guise. The resolve of the people of the state to elect him as their new governor come September 22, is real and indomitable. We are poised to give our people the best which they deserve and which they have been denied for eight long years.  There is no going back,” ADC said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .