[File] Ogun State Governor Ibikunle Amosun; All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu; Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN); President Muhammadu Buhari; APC Governorship Candidate, Dr. Kayode Fayemi and APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole at the party’s mega rally in Ado-Ekiti…July 9, 2018.<br /> The Borno state chapter of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) has adopted the indirect mode of primaries for all the elective positions for the 2019 elections. This is despite the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) declaration on September 1 that all primary elections for elective offices would be through direct primaries except where impediments would make it impossible. “The use of indirect primaries is conditional and dependent on logistic impediments, peculiarities and the needs that make a given state unable to use direct primaries,” APC acting national publicity secretary, Yekini Nabena, stated. However, the Borno chapter of the party on Tuesday said it has chose to adopt indirect primaries to elect its candidates. Their decision was an outcome of a stakeholders meeting involving 37 executive members of APC in Borno, serving and former senators , serving and former members of the House of Representatives, serving and former Borno state deputy Governors among others. The APC  said the reason for adopting the indirect mode of primaries is to consolidate on the existing peace in the state . Borno APC Chairman, Ali Bukar Dalori said after due consultation with stakeholders, the executives of the party settled for indirect primaries for every elective position in the state. The Speaker of the state assembly Abdulkarim Lawal who spoke on behalf of other 28 members cited security challenges among others as the reason of adopting the indirect primaries by his members. “So I stand here on behalf of the 28 members of the state House of Assembly, and based on security situation in Borno,  support the executive members of our party for the adoption of indirect mode of Primaries for all elective positions come 2019,” Lawal said. Charman, caucus of Members of House of Representatives at the National Assembly from Borno, Mohammed Tahir Monguno expressed members support on the decision of the state exco for the adoption of Indirect Primaries. “On behalf of the Borno caucus in the House of Representatives , and sequel to APC constitution which stipulated the adoption of direct, Indirect or consensus as procedure for Primaries,” “I seize this opportunity to tell you that we are in support of the state executive of our party for adoption of indirect primaries for all elective positions in the 2019 general elections,” Monguno said. Senators representing northern Borno senatorial District , Senator Abu Kyari, senator representing southern Borno senatorial district, Senator Ali Ndume all supported the motion for the adoption of the indirect Primaries. However, it will be recalled that a group of APC members in the state “APC Take Back Control Movement” had on Monday insisted on having the direct mode of Primaries as against the indirect primaries. The group cited unequal representation and disenfranchisement of card carrying members before this critical stakeholders meeting, which adopted the indirect mode of primaries. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .