Kaduna State governor Nasir El-Rufai Sani, Boroffice, others kick, Ebonyi opts for direct mode
The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Katsina State yesterday adopted indirect primaries for the 2019 general elections. Governor Aminu Bello Masari stated this in an interview with journalists shortly after a meeting with stakeholders at Government House, Katsina. The party also resolved to endorse President Muhammadu Buhari and Masari as candidates for the presidential and governorship seats through simple raising of hands to indicate those for or against it, followed by signatures. The meeting, which was presided over by the governor, was attended by Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Muhammed Inuwa and state Chairman of the party, Shittu Shittu, among others. Masari said the choice of indirect primaries was due to non-availability of clear list of APC members in the state and the need to avoid litigations, as direct primaries had made the then Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), to suffer severe consequences in the past. But reacting to the decision, representative of Kaduna Central senatorial district, Shehu Sani, rejected the decision, arguing that direct primaries would be better, as it will unite the party members. Sani, who spoke during a media briefing at the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) Secretariat in Kaduna said: “If really those who are rejecting direct primaries have performed, they will not object to direct primaries in Kaduna State.” APC chairman in the state, Air Commodore Emmanuel K. Jekada, explained that direct primary was not applicable to the state due to the absence of a comprehensive register of party members and experience of the recent council primaries in state. An aspirant for Kaduna Central senatorial seat, Sani Saleh, also rejected indirect primaries, saying it was not realistic in the state. As a result, crisis erupted yesterday in Kaduna, prompting the removal of campaign billboards and posters of aspirants along major roads and highways around Kaduna metropolis and its environs. However, a faction of APC in Ondo State, led by Profesor Ajayi Boroffice, has rejected indirect primaries, insisting that it would not stand in the state. Also, the APC in Rivers State has voted to adopt indirect primaries for all elections in the state next year. The decision comes on the heels of an Abuja High Court perpetual injunction restraining the party and its National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, from conducting fresh congresses in the state. Members of the State Executive Committee (SEC) during a meeting presided over by the Chairman, Ojukaye Flag Amachree, at the party secretariat in Port Harcourt, resolved to adopt indirect primaries. Three members voted for consensus option, one member voted for direct primaries, while 106 members voted for indirect primaries. Meanwhile, the Ebonyi State chapter of the party yesterday adopted direct primaries for all elective offices in the 2019 general elections. State Chairman of the party, Dr. Sylvester Nwambe in a statement, said the decision was reached after a meeting of the state executive committee, stakeholders and aspirants at the party secretariat in Abakaliki. The party noted that due to the controversies surrounding the just concluded wards, councils and state congresses nationwide, direct primaries was better to avoid litigations.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .