 [File] Executive of Nigerian Society of Engineers  The association noted that it’s pathetic that engineers are seen as not living up to their responsibility despite, the depth of expertise and innovations the members’ possess. Chairman, Apapa Branch of NSE, Dr. Ombugadu Garba stated this during the association 2018 engineering week held in Lagos. According to him, irrespective of the perception which the public holds about the practitioners, they have proven to be well trained and could compete favourably with their counterparts anywhere in the world. He said the nations’ economy has a lot to benefit if government supports practitioners, emphasising that any engineer engaged for infrastructural development would create multiple jobs for the people. Speaking on the theme, “Engineering in the eyes of the nation“, the chairman said; “Some people see practitioners as hardworking individuals that could set up the country on the path of technology and innovation while others see engineer as incompetent. Whichever way the society sees engineers, we believed that practitioners are well trained and could compete favourably with their counterparts anywhere in the world.” “We call on the government to support Nigerian engineers more. The present government is taking a good look at improving the participation of indigenous engineers. The recently signed order five is encouraging local technology, and participation of Nigerian engineers in the construction and building of infrastructure”, he stated. He explained that members have been advising government on the need for effective metering approach for the people and the need for the public to have value for their money. Similarly, the Vice Chairman, Sunny Ejeje, explained that engineers need to get the confidence of the public through exemplary service delivery. “Majority of the building collapses that we have around is caused by people who are quacks. The registered engineers can’t deliver shoddy job. An engineer must have a license to practice and be registered by regulatory bodies in the profession” Giving further clarifications on the sub-topic of the workshop, ‘arbitration as it relates to engineering’, he noted that it’s very important for engineers to get informed on the concept to effectively handle issues of contract law and develop amicable ways of resolving conflict. “ When there is conflict, an engineer doesn’t need to call on lawyers at every time. Engineers are supposed to be trained to carry out arbitration without the external parties. Arbitration has become the main thing in the profession today to the extent that before parties in contract conflicts go to court, they could scheme out some attempt to settle their differences”. The celebration also, featured; industrial visit to Flour Mills of Nigeria Limited, indoor games competition among members, annual general meeting and the election of 2018/2019 new executive committee members. In the meantime, Sunny Ejeje has been elected as the new chairman of the Apapa Branch of NSE. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .