Nigeria police PHOTO:NAN The Nigerian Police has raised alarm over the plot by some unidentified factions in the politics of the state to make Thursday’s governorship rerun election violent. The election held on Saturday, 22 September was declared inconclusive by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) after votes in seven polling units of the state were cancelled due to violence. The election will take place in seven polling units scattered in four Local Government Areas (LGAs) of the state. These are Ife North, Ife South, Orolu and Osogbo Local Government Areas. While the police has alerted members of the public of a planned violence, it has also assured residents of the state that it would not allow anything that will undermine the process and breach of public peace. Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) Operations and Security Coordinator for the election Joshak Habila said the police will not let their guards down for the planned violence to occur. Habila noted that Saturday’s election was free, fair and peaceful, save for few incidents of “breach of peace and threat to life and property.” He warned that only eligible voters and officials would be allowed near polling units in the areas where rerun would take place. “We have an intelligence report that, there is a grand plan to turn the election gruesomely violent and deadly by arming thugs to unleash mayhem at polling centres.” “As law enforcement agencies, the police and other security agencies would not permit the breakdown of law and order.” Habila assured electorates “The Police and other law enforcement agencies have been deployed to maintain law and order and protect lives and property of residents.” He warned that those “preparing for “fire for fire” must be ready to bear the consequences of their actions which are designed to undermine this particular democratic process.” The officer said the “Nigeria Police Force will remain proactive and would not rest on its oars in the task to decode the identities of those democratic enemies.” He urged residents are requested to be “law abiding and go about their lawful duties without fear and with the full assurance of the protection of law-abiding citizens and voters who are out there to exercise their franchise.” The DIG appealed to residents to report all suspicious activities to the police, such as solicitation for votes, buying of Permanent Voters Cards (PVC) and any plan to rig or disrupt the election. “Troublemakers and other interlopers are warned to keep away from the polling units and indeed from any part of the state.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .