Femi Odugbemi Ahead of the maiden edition of the MultiChoice Talent Factory (MTF), which aims at grooming young talents in filmmaking, the academy has finally unveiled list of successful candidates that will be moving into the academy with filmmaker Femi Odugbemi as Director. The list, which was made available recently include Adeniyi “Taj” Joseph, a 26-old cinematographer, who is convinced that the African creative industry is evolving at a fast pace. He believes that the biggest challenge of the African film and television industry is paucity of technical skills and hopes to learn as much as he can about the process and business of filmmaking at the MultiChoice Talent Factory (MTF) Academy. There’s also 26-year old Allen “Blackboi” Onyige, 26, a cinematographer passionate about music videos. Born in Port Harcourt, Nigeria, his dream is to be a film director. Allen wishes to create a TV show depicting the lifestyles of people in different Africans countries. Blessing “Goldihyah” Bulus wanted to be a filmmaker since childhood. She believes that film is one of the strongest mediums of communication. She is desirous of learning about filmmaking beyond being behind the camera. Passionate about refining storytelling through film, 23-years old Bolaji James, is a cinematographer, photographer and editor for film and documentary, who believes that it is important to have a discerning eye for the visual aspect of film. He admires Nigerian film talents like Yinka Edwards and Tope Oshin, who handle cinematography and storytelling with a sharp eye. Also 25-year old television director Dumevi Irene Yaamoakoa holds a diploma in Television Production. Born in Accra, Ghana, she predicts that over the next decade, Africa’s creative talents will be competing with their global counterparts in terms of skills, finance and technology. Also moving into the MTF academy is Edmund Asamoah, a 26-year old videographer, photographer and graphic designer. He was born in Accra, Ghana, and holds a first-degree Communication Design and Multimedia. Joining them is Gilbert Bassey, a 25-year-old, who is passionate about writing and is also a musician with the stage name, Gillian Bacci. He believes that it is a good story that makes a good film. Others include Henry Denkirya, a filmmaker with a passion for photography, Indogesit Peter, a writer, who wants to use his talent to tell quality stories that will preserve African heritage and ensure global acceptance of African culture and
Iroagalachi Precious Ugonna, nicknamed Imperfect Anna, who was born 23 years ago in Port Harcourt and holds a BSc in Sociology. Others are Kemi Adeyemi, Metong Minwon, Mnena Akpera AKA Cutest Mnena, Moses Akerele, Nanret Paul Kumbet AKA Nanee, Patience Adisenu, Salma Saliu, Sonia Nwosu, Tochukwu Nwabueze and Uchenna Ugwu, a 23-year old Nigerian, who aspires to be an award-winning scriptwriter, novelist and producer. She is convinced that the future of film and television in Africa is bright.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .