Recent data published by the Nigeria’s National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) pegs the unemployment rate at 14.2 per cent in the last quarter of 2016, up from 13.9 per cent in the preceding quarter. It’s the ninth consecutive quarter that the unemployment rate in Nigeria has increased and this has continued. With the challenge of unemployment also comes knowing and applying for available jobs. Just as there are a lot of websites that offer job applicants an opportunity to get their dream jobs, accessibility of such platform is also a thing to worry about. However, Jobberman, which has in the past nine years assisted job seekers find job opportunities, has upgraded its platform to provide an easier and more effective job search experience for jobseekers, and a refined recruitment experience for employers. Since going live in August 2009, the platform has grown to become Nigeria’s preferred online recruitment platform, West Africa’s most popular job search engine according to forbes and one of Africa’s top five recruitment sites. Based on the new development, employers on the Jobberman platform can now manage their job ads and applications better with the newly designed Applicant Tracking System (ATS) and create candidate databases for future use. Jobseekers on their part can now set up or update their profiles with a profile picture, which is visible to employers. They can now create a career summary and professional headline that summarises education, experience, skills and goals. There’s also a link to specify preferred jobs for easier job matching; let recruiters know their job search availability status; add projects and portfolio to their profiles, allowing employers to see samples of previous accomplishments and other features. “This new platform has been designed to help professionals move forward at every step of their career; from entry level to experienced professional, giving the jobseeker more control over the outcome of his or her career.” Jobberman has taken its audience feedback consisting of over two million career professionals and 50,000 employers who connect daily on the platform by including new features that can help employers and jobseekers accomplish more of their career and company goals. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .