DSSC shifts focus to Sports Festival 
Delta State Governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa will on October 1 roll out the red carpet for the state’s athletes and officials, who made history by winning the National Youth Games a record fourth time in Ilorin, Kwara State last weekend. Team Delta made it four wins out of four competitions at the 2018 NYG, finishing with a total of 67 medals, made up of 27 gold, 24 silver and 16 bronze. The state had won the multi-sports youth development event for the third time in 2017 with 61 medals made up of 22 gold, 16 silver and 23 bronze. Speaking with The Guardian yesterday, Chairman, Delta Sports Commission, Tony Okowa hinted that the governor would host the athletes and their officials on October 1, a day set aside to mark Nigeria’s Independence. “We are all looking forward to that day with great excitement. I am really happy for the victory in Ilorin because we promised the governor of retaining our title before we left Asaba for the championship. We also had the best of preparations for the Games following the completion of Stephen Keshi Stadium.” The Delta Sports Commission chairman revealed that Team Delta would shift its focus to the National Sports Festival soon after the reception on October 1. “Delta had maintained its leading role at the National Sports Festival since the return to Democracy in 1999. We will do again in December when the National Sports Festival holds in Abuja. For now, we are still in celebration mood over our victory in Ilorin.” The 2018 National Youth Games saw Team Lagos making a return, after missing out in the second and third editions. The state returned in a big way, emerging second with a total of 60 medals, made up of 23 gold, 15 silver and 22 bronze. Bayelsa and Ogun were joint third with 34 medals each, made up of 11 gold, 7 silver and 16 bronze.The initial 17-year age bar was reduced to 15 after the third edition in 2017 to ensure that the youth development target was sustained. The Games’ fifth edition in 2019 will also hold at the University of Ilorin.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .