There is a lot of drama accompanying the recent #Loose talk podcast. According to the buzz on social media, the host lived up to the name of the show and was very loose with his talk. Considering the comments on Twitter, some people are pained by the podcast and would desire to tell him a word or two if they could be left alone with him for a few minutes. The show threw shades at various Nigerian celebrities including Wizkid the main topic apparently and some people have the following to say on Twitter: Before today I hadn't  even heard of the  Osagz abi Osagie person , the idiot is now  opening mouth to insult Teni Makanaki, Teni Askamaya, Teni fagin?    Who is this guy???? Mr Osagz DON'T COME TO THE MAINLAND O, pic.twitter.com/AY1H1Qzn4S — Oladipupo Oriire (@Orire_) September 25, 2018  I keep telling you people men have mad courage simply because of their Y chromosome. If not why would a person like Osagie with a face only his mother can love want to discuss Teni’s looks ? Madness! — Rinay (@graffigirl) September 25, 2018  Nigerians don't always like the truthAm a huge Teni fan Osagie is right Teni don't have the looks even her mum ones says it too — Umoru Muhammed (@Moko_polo) September 25, 2018  Osagie was spreading fallacies on Loose Talk Podcast 1. Wizkid's friends he said Wiz abandoned, Rotimi, Willybang & Piper are still close to Wiz. 2 of them are part of STARBOY. 2. Banky "didn't leave", Wizkid's contract expired. 3. Wizkid's label provided all those for him. — World Publicist (@IsimaOdeh) September 25, 2018  Osagie probably thought the internet would support him in dragging Wizkid. Nah! We know when to drag people. You dragged yourself sir. Deal with it. — Taofeek Oseni (@HEAD_MASTA) September 25, 2018  How wish osagie go just stroll come surulere right now Wizkid FC just gat few question that’s all Osagie : you say wetin pic.twitter.com/pOXNgCroU6 — highBee (@hamzycent) September 25, 2018  The Osagie is a fool now. That’s how he talked shit about them MI/ chocolate city and had to apologize after. With face like Lagos/ Ibadan express — Jalowaziri  (@kingjalo) September 25, 2018  Hate or Love Osagz Osagie Alonge His interviews on #LooseTalkPodcast is the best in Nigeria!!! — Superstar Influencer (@LadiSpeaks) September 25, 2018  Of course I can’t comment on all the alleged stuff Osagie said but let me keep it a buck, i don’t fucking care! Can somebody say KARMA?!! When Wizkid was slandering his baby mamas and calling them out of their names he didn’t mind abi? Ntoi!!! #LooseTalkPodcast — HER (@balanceciaga) September 25, 2018  [ad unit=2