 Attahiru Bafarawa  In its determination to provide a better alternative to the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led government next year, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirants are doing everything possible to oust President Muhammadu Buhari from office.One of its presidential aspirants, Attahiru Bafarawa, yesterday described the Buhari-led administration as a disaster, insisting that Nigerians should vote him out in the 2019 elections. Bafarawa, a two-term Governor of Sokoto State, also stressed that Nigeria is sick because its leadership is sick.He spoke with journalists in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital shortly after he had addressed the party’s State executive and delegates of the party’s Presidential primary.
Also speaking during his visit to the PDP Secretariat in Ikeja, he assured that whoever wins the primary would be supported by other party members. However, another presidential hopeful, David Mark said for the country to get out of its many socioeconomic challenges, Nigerians must be ready to vote for a bridge builder, who will bring all Nigerians together irrespective of their belief and social status. Mark, a former Senate President said this yesterday in Ibadan and decried the current administration for allowing centrifugal forces to thrive in the country.He argued that if the PDP conducts transparent, free and fair primaries, the party would emerge victorious in the presidential election, adding that he was in the race not because of his personal interest but for the interest of all Nigerians. Also, while addressing PDP faithful at the party secretariat in Lokoja, Kogi State as part of his consultation for the PDP ticket, he stressed that the process should not be compromised.Mark added that the will of the people must prevail no matter the process adopted by the party to choose its flag bearer, insisting that he will be comfortable with any innovation anchored on the general interest of the people.“I am contesting the presidential election because I can make a positive difference for the good of the nation,” he added. Meanwhile, the presidential ambition of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, may have suffered a major setback, as the members of PDP in Adamawa State have withdrawn their support for his bid at the party’s platform. State chairman of the party, Abubakar Tahir Shehu, who announced during the governorship declaration of Ahmadu Umaru Fintri, said the state’s delegates yesterday withdrew their support for Atiku under the party. Shehu had said: “All the Adamawa State delegates votes are intact for Atiku,  because the Northwest has produced enough presidents and it is the  turn of North east to occupy the presidency.” But while receiving Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, another PDP presidential aspirant at the party secretariat yesterday in Yola, Shehu said the state’s delegates have no special candidate and that God will pick whoever He wants to fly the party’s presidential ticket. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .