Olusola Teniola, ATCON President Telecommunications experts have urged Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and National Frequency Management Council (NFMC) to expedite action in the licensing of TV White Space frequency for increased broadband penetration even as the commission is targeting 30 percent by the end of the year. Ahmed Adesanya, Connectivity consultant, and owner of a patented invention on TV White Space with MDM Solution describe the application as the unused TV channels between the active ones in the UHF and VHF spectrum. “These are typically referred to as the buffer channels. It has since been research and proven that this unused spectrum can be used to provide broadband internet access while operating harmoniously with surrounding TV channels.” He explained that TV white space has a better coverage than the traditional Wi-Fi router with a relatively limited range, around 100 meters under perfect conditions and can be blocked by walls or other environmental barriers, While TV white (802.11af Wi-Fi) can cover an expanse of about 10- 12 kilometers. Engr. Olusola Teniola, president, Association of Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria (ATCON), said that TV white space is an experimental application to try out in areas of congestion or scarcity of radio frequency. “In Nigeria, the regulator NCC in collaboration with National Frequency Management Council (NFMC) have oversight function on this spectrum, and they have not defined how, where and what application to deploy using these free slots- a free space in spectrum. “TV white space is being used to try and test viability of broadband using those slots until NCC has approved and issue licenses for its usage. “It is one of the several ways of broadband type application. Others are spectrum 2.6GHZ, 800MHZ among others. These spectrums should be made available in timely manner by NCC at affordable prize so that in addition to TV white space operators both large and small can have wide options choices for broadband network rollout to communication in Nigeria. “In fact, TV white space is very good choice and option for networks been built by communities because of low cost slots in it,” he noted.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .