President Muhammadu Buhari. PHOTO/TWITTER/APCnigeria The ruling All progressive Congress (APC) has assured that the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration would heed to the clamour to ensure true federalism in the country. APC, in a statement by its Acting National publicity secretary, Mr Yekini Nabena, disclosed that a practical approach to implementing the Governor Nasir Ahmad el-Rufai’s restructuring Committees Report is being considered by the Federal Government. The party threw its weight behind the position by the Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo who was quoted as saying that what Nigeria requires now is not geographic restructuring but good governance, honest management of public resources, deeper fiscal Federalism and a clear vision for development. APC maintained that the calls for restructuring by a section of the country’s elites are often time a populist and opportunistic ploy to latch on and politically exploit simplistic public narratives on the panacea to Nigeria’s problems and not necessarily for its realism and practicability. Recalling how billions of naira were wasted over the years on the issue of true federalism and restructuring, the party warned the citizenry to be wary of latter-day converts to the matter of restructuring in a bid to score political goals. The party particularly accused the former vice president Atiku Abubakar and the former Senate president David Mark of paying lip service on the issue of true federalism. It noted: “The APC believes that good, sincere, focussed, and purposeful leadership at all levels will propel the country to its deserved heights. Sincere efforts towards achieving True Federalism are more important than politically-exploited populist rhetoric which achieves nothing. With an emphasis on practicability, constitutionality and reality, we are confident that True Federalism or restructuring as some will like to call it will be better achieved under the President Buhari-led APC administration. “As Vice President Prof Yemi Osinbajo submitted, good governance involves transparency and prudence in public finance, it involves social justice, investing in the poor and providing jobs and opportunities for the people, particularly young people. This remains the focus of the current administration as seen by the several social intervention programmes currently being implemented. Commendably, the President Muhammadu Buhari administration is committed to implementing a New National Minimum wage. ” Also, the Government Enterprise and Empowerment Programme (GEEP) scheme, comprising: GEEP MarketMoni, GEEP FarmerMoni and GEEP TraderMoni is being executed by the Bank of Industry and providing interest-free loans to petty traders and artisans across Nigeria. “With the inception of the President Buhari administration, a well-articulated roadmap, considering all the issues involved in ensuring a new, well secured, better governed Nigeria with equitable distribution of resources within the component federating units, is being given serious attention.” Continuing, it argued: “We must never succumb to ethnic champions who promote campaigns to break up the country into tiny bits or other unrealistic and unpatriotic proposals in the name of restructuring to solve our problems as a country. It is simplistic and unconstitutional. ” For instance, Alhaji Atiku was Vice President and Chairman of the National Economic Council throughout the eight years of the President Olusegun Obasanjo administration. How did he use his office to correct the imbalance in our federation he expresses today? Senator David Mark was Senate President for eight years and never sponsored a motion on restructuring. Today he is promising to restructure the country.” Recall that the APC set up a Committee on True Federalism under the Chairmanship of the Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai. The Committee submitted its report to the immediate-past National Working Committee, making its recommendations on twenty-four items that Nigerians expressed views to balance our federation. These items are: creation of states; merger of states; delegation principle; fiscal federalism; devolution of power and resources between state, federal and local governments; federating units; form of government; independent candidacy; land tenure system; local government autonomy; power sharing and rotation; resource control; types of legislature; demand for affirmation for vulnerable groups — people with disabilities, women and youth; ministerial appointment; citizenship; state constitution; community participation; minimum wage; governance; judiciary; state re-alignment and border adjustment; circular status of the federation and referendum. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .