 I Go Dye  The comedian in his letter said, “what does he want to achieve for Delta State that he failed to do when he had all the resources in his control of 25 local councils as the Executive Governor? Compare that to becoming a senator with lean resources to undergo mere constituency projects worth two hundred million? In reflection of what should be ideal, Uduaghan should be advocating for a younger candidate, instead of the personal ambition to run for the senatorial position in Delta State.” Part of the letter reads: “Interestingly, if he had transformed Delta State to the least part of Lagos in terms of social and structural development or built a modern city even in his local council, there wouldn’t have been any reason for him to buy a property outside Delta. “Obviously, Delta State is blessed with wonderful landscapes that can offer such platforms, like the glorified Banana Island in Lagos, but nothing has been developed in these regards. The template of ‘Delta Beyond Oil’ that he promoted during his tenure only existed in the media; no foundation was built by him to verify this claim,” the comedian alleged. He continued: “I have no personal interest, but I am speaking the minds of Deltans, whose pensions were not paid even during his tenure when he was Governor. We all have a role to play in rebuilding Nigeria and I must play my part, regardless of who is concerned. This is our fatherland and we cannot give emptiness to our children,” he said. The comedian further declared that he has become the voice of the voiceless in view of his capacity as the UKAID Goodwill Ambassador on Making a Difference Against Corruption.“This is not about our personal interest, it is beyond the blame that is being placed on the political parties either as PDP or APC, the fundamental problem are the people who have failed to live according to the ideology of their irrespective political parties and against the desires of the people.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .