President Muhammadu Buhari (right) raising the hand of All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in the September 22 election, Isiaka Gboyega Oyetola. With them is Governor Rauf Aregbesola, during Oyetola’s introduction to the President at the Presidential Villa, Abuja Nigeria President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Governor-elect of Osun state, Adegboyega Isiaka Oyetola, for winning the keenly contested Osun governorship election. Oyetola was declared winner of the election by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) after polling 255,505 votes compared to 255, 023 votes of candidate of the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Ademola Adeleke. Although, Adeleke polled the highest votes in the election held on Saturday, September 22, with 254, 698, while APC’s Oyetola had 254, 345, but was declared inconclusive by INEC because the 353 margin between the both parties was lesser than 2,637 cancelled in seven polling units. However, after the rerun election held on Thursday, September 27, in Ife-North, Ife-South and Osogbo local governments, the APC candidate emerged victorious. “President Buhari extends warm felicitations to the state and national campaign teams that worked assiduously to guarantee the victory at the polls, while commending the outgoing Governor, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola for eight years of steadfastness and service to his people,” Buhari’s media aide Garba Shehu said in statement. “Thank you Osun State for supporting our good governance agenda by re-electing the APC. I assure you that we will continue to work for the progress and prosperity of the state and the nation.” President Buhari urged the “Governor-elect to always remember that the electorate expects unreserved commitment to delivering results that directly impact their lives and families.” While the opposition party and some section of observers questioned the fairness in conduct of the election, Buhari described the exercise as successful. He also commended all contestants in the election for putting in their best to be elected to serve the state. “President Buhari affirms that the successful election in the State further strengthens the democratic culture in the country, extolling INEC for, once again, making the country proud.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .