The South-East National Vice Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Emma Eneukwu, and Pastor of Dunamis Int’l Gospel Centre, Enugu, Timothy Benedict, have commended Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State for his exemplary leadership style, which they said, has brought peace and unity among politicians in the state irrespective of political affiliations. The duo, who spoke separately during the dedication of Eneukwu’s son, Chukwubuikem, at the church, appreciated Ugwuanyi for creating an enabling environment for politics to thrive in Enugu State without bitterness. Eneukwu, who described the governor as a true father to all politicians in the state irrespective of their political leanings, said his inclusive leadership style and bi-partisan approach to governance had brought enduring peace and unity among political leaders in the state, as well as development. Benedict, while expressing delight with Ugwuanyi’s presence at the event in solidarity with a member of the opposition political party in the state, called on other states in the country to “come and learn the template on how to play politics,” saying: “This is politics without bitterness, politics without struggle.” The APC National Vice Chairman said the presence of other politicians from different political parties, such as Senator Andy Ubah, Senator Chukwuka Utazi, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Geoffrey Onyeama; Senator Jim Nwobodo, Senator Ken Nnamani, Senator Ayogu Eze, Gbazuagu Nweke Gbazuagu, among others, showed that Ugwuanyi is “a father to all”. He, therefore, stressed the need for people to always pray and encourage those in power, saying: “God gives power to people, and when He gives someone power, you should allow the person and pray for him.” The cleric, who commended the governor for entrenching peace and good governance in Enugu State, urged him to continue to maintain peace for the progress of the state, adding: “I am excited to see that our brother (Eneukwu) is of the opposition party in the state, and the governor, who is from the ruling party in the state, is here. And when you look by the side, you will see people from different political affiliations all coming together to celebrate God.” “This shows that Enugu State is blessed. This is what we have been praying for, and we will continue to pray for that.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .