Johannesburg is one of the largest cities in Africa. It offers a variety of unique experiences for everyone, from food to nightlife and day tours. It is usually difficult when deciding how best to spend your time in “Joburg” or “Jozi”, as it is fondly called, and this can be overwhelming. You will get value for your money when exploring some of these places: Orlando Towers, Soweto. Photo: Departful Soweto is 30 minutes from Joburg and a tour round will take two hours. Visit attractions like the Mandela house, Orlando Towers, Hector Pieterson Memorial and more. Soweto is the only place in the world where two Nobel Prize winners – Nelson Mandela and Desmond Tutu lived on the same street: Vilakazi Street. Lesedi Cultural Village. Photo: Quicket Get a feel of different South African cultures and tribes while at this cultural village. It is a vibrant and colourful place great for photo ops. Experience dance sessions by the Basotho, Xhosa, Pedi, Zulu and Ndebele tribes. Indulge in mouth-watering cuisines prepared by traditional chefs. Spend your day at the zoo and learn about reptiles, monkeys, zebras, elephants and more. It is very affordable and costs 90 rands (N2, 200) each for entry. This was shot on a stormy evening in the good company of <a title="Joburg Photowalkers" href="http://www.meetup.com/joburg-photowalkers/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Joburg Photowalkers</a>, a very active Johannesburg photographers group.<br />We went up Northcliff Hill and spend the evening shooting the vistas in the safety of number, though I only got 4 shots I will publish, it was one of the more socially enjoyable evenings I had in a long time. We ended up at a restaurant a bunch of photography enthusiasts not caring for a moment about work and home, just enjoying the moment.<br />Lately, I have wondered if my career in software development is worth it, because of times like these. This has one of the best viewpoints in Johannesburg. Drive or take a hike to get to the top of the hill. If you are obsessed with sunset pictures, then this is the place to be. Always explore with a local, and it is advisable not to go alone. Most importantly, it is free! This is the biggest mall in Johannesburg. There are hundreds of stores here and a variety of restaurants and coffee shops. Around the corner is the Nelson Mandela Square, which has a six-metre statue of the legend.