 A telecoms mast  Globacom grew from 39 million to 40.1 million subscribers; Airtel increased from 38.6 million subscribers to 39.9 million. However, the NCC statistics showed that 9Mobile fell from 16.3 million subscribers in March to 15.8 million by June.
   
Largely between March and June, the quartet of MTN, Globacom, Airtel and 9Mobile added 13.5 million new subscribers, moving from 148.8 million to 162.3 million.
   
Apart from the freebies including Data ‘awoofs’ that operators are luring subscribers with, market watchers claimed that more connections would come based on some certain happenings in the Nigerian market, including access to smartphones.
   
The Group Chief Executive Officer of MTN, Rob Shuter, in Durban, South Africa on Monday said as at the beginning of the year, while the company had 220 million global subscribers with 55 million coming from Nigeria.  I mean most handsets in the Nigerian market are in 3G frame, but to get connected faster, we must upscale to 4G. But we are doing everything possible to scale them up to 4G. In all of these, we shall seriously need collaboration from government, other players and the people.”
   
For more robust telecoms ecosystem, experts said though the mobile network ecosystem is improving, owing to the efforts of the NCC, which ensured that users have access to “lite” mobile applications, which require less data. 
   
According to them, customers in the country  have lower incomes and many of the mobile data packages offered are cost prohibitive. For example, Nigerian smartphone users tend to use Opera mini, a lite version of the Opera mobile browser, more often than they use Google Chrome, which is the most popular mobile browser globally. The availability of data-saving mobile services makes mobile usage more alluring to consumers.
   
According to the GSMA, the global mobile subscriber base is expected to increase by nearly one billion more users in the next few years, having surpassed the five billion connected people in 2017. However, despite significant mobile internet penetration growth in recent years, nearly 2 billion of the 5 billion mobile subscribers in the world do not benefit from connectivity (2017), i.e. they are unable to enjoy the social and economic opportunities of the internet. 
   
On this, Shutter said great efforts are therefore needed to heed the call of organizations such as the ITU; to bridge the digital divide and foster a digital inclusive world.
   
“We cannot tackle the challenge of bridging the digital divide without addressing barriers around coverage, affordability and access of handsets and services, and education of our users. This endeavor is too complex to be addressed solely by governments or just the operators or society. This needs to be a shared goal. We must all work together for connectivity,” he stressed. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .