PHOTO: Laureates College Organisers of the Radio One, 103.5FM Children Sports Fiesta have assured intending participants that the floor has been laid for them to excel at third edition of the competition scheduled to hold next month. The first edition of the competition was held at the Onikan Stadium with 1000 participants, while last year witnessed more than that number in attendance at the Campos Mini-Stadium. Following the success recorded in previous editions, the organisers said this year’s competition would be more exciting, adding that scouts are ready to discover more talents from the competition. According to the Chief Organiser and General Manager of Radio One 103.5Fm, Mr. Korede Ogunbunmi, participants and spectators should be ready for an unforgettable experience. Also speaking on the competition, the Director, Lagos Operations of the Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria, Prince Adeyinka Amosu, who is also a sports enthusiast, said they are leaving nothing to chance in ensuring that the third edition of the sports fiesta went down in history as the best grassroots sports development programme in Lagos. At the maiden edition, Joker Stars Academy emerged champions in the competition, which featured 19 teams (boys) comprising junior secondary schools and sports academies took part in a five-aside football tournament. The 2017 edition turned out bigger with the inclusion of female football and athletics. 32 male and eight female teams battled to reach the final held at Campos Mini Stadium, Lagos Island on Wednesday, 24th May, 2017. Madiba Academy, Oshodi won the male football event while Revival School, Ikorodu won the female version. The 2018 edition of Radio One Children Sports Fiesta, dubbed ‘Operation catch them young, is expected to attract over 2000 students and youths, who will vie for honours in five-a-side football, 100m dash and 4×100m relay. The Preliminary matches will hold on May 19 at Queens College, Yaba, Lagos from 10.00 a.m., while the final is scheduled for May 24 at Campos Mini Stadium, Lagos Island at 10.00 a.m. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .