As one of Africa’s biggest and most exclusive cultural annual event and award festival, ‘My Heritage, My Pride & Sisi Oge, returned Sunday, April 15 and it was an exciting, fun-filled night of talents, awards and performances. Chidera Udeh emerged winner of the cultural beauty event, which was powered by No. 1 Heritage Solutions and supported by Lush Hair Extension, a staple from Lucky Fibres Limited, and Lagos State Government. Held at the Nike Art Gallery, Lekki, Lagos, the hair braiding festival is part of a series of activities aimed at promoting the African cultural values to other parts of the world. This year’s edition of the festival, showcased lot of art exhibition, dance drama, beautiful and colourful events, with 22 contestants, who were camp for three months on stage showcasing their talents. They are exposed to knowing more about what the contest is all about. Speaking about the festival, the convener of the festival, Idris Aregbe, popularly known as Sisi-Oge, said that today’s high moral decadence in Nigeria and across Africa is as a result of cultural neglect. He said, “For us this is different when compared to other contest all over the world because it’s all about those skills that have been impacted into the contestants. The most important thing about it is that it will be used to reconnect them back to their roots as well as prepare them for the future.” “The beauty of the African woman is not only about how beautiful she is. It is a display of the African beauty not only in appearance but also in strength, value, skills and mentality. I’m not a pageant promoter, but a promoter of African culture and values. So it’s not just about pageant, rather it about values and what it represents,” he added. Speaking at the event, which had people from all walks of life with different ethnicities, nationalities and backgrounds in attendance, founder Nike Art Gallery, Chief (Mrs.) Nike Okundaye, explained that the choice of gallery as venue for the festival resonates with people from everywhere in the world and one thing in common — love for the African and Nigerian cultures. According to the National Sales Manager, Lush Hair Extension, Mr. Hemant Nahar, the Sisi Oge brand goals are in line with the product objectives, which is to raise cultural ambassadors and redefine the African woman. He said, “Lush Hair Extension is Afrocentric; it is made in Nigeria for Nigerians. Our attachment is of the highest quality available in the market right now and our crotchet is the first ready to wear with beads.” “As an affordable top quality product with varied Stock Keeping Units (SKUs) for every woman, Lush Hair gives maximum customer satisfaction in enhancing the natural beauty. LUSH hair extension is value for money; the extensions are also reusable with their styles intact,” he added. After many rounds, five finalists were chosen. The chosen maidens came out dressed to impress in spectacular evening gowns. After a final question and answer round, Chidera Udeh was crowned Miss Sisi Oge 2018, and she won the Lush Hair Extension brand ambassador role. At the hair-braiding contest of the pageant, the contestants had their hair made and styled with various Lush hair extensions. The stylists came up with different hairstyles that depicted Nigerian culture and of all the contestants. Commending the sponsors for support, the Project Manager Sisi Oge, Jennifer Odufunwa said “For rolling out the drums to support us in showcasing the Nigerian culture, putting it on a world class pedestal, we say a very big thank you to Lush Hair; all of our girls look stunning in their different indigenous hairstyles made with Lush crotchet and attachment.”
This year’s event was a mind-blowing cross-cultural experience had star performances from local and international artistes including Opekete master, Kcee, Ozzy Bosco and young star, Naomi Peller, who thrilled guests at the ceremony. The beautiful Chidera, who boasts over 35k followers on Instagram and is signed to Beth Models was stunned by the decision but accepted her crown with all the grace and poise of a true beauty queen.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .