 Chidi Okoroafor  We are to do the very works, which Christ did, when He was walking through the streets of Jerusalem and Israel. What are the works, which Jesus did? He preached the gospel, healed the sick, cast out demons, ministered to the poor, and gave hope to those that were hopeless. Not until the current day believers in Christ authenticate the validity of our believe in Christ through “greater works” (works which not only measure up to the ones which Jesus did, but are greater than those which accompanied Jesus Ministry on earth), our faith in Christ is in doubt. Jesus, while bowing bow out of earthly ministry, handed over to all believers an assignment to do greater works than He did, because He was going back to His Father in Heaven. Now that Jesus has returned to His Father in Heaven, are we in all sincerity manifesting individually and collectively the much-needed works, which He did, let alone the additional (the extra/greater works)? It is not an impossible mission to do greater works than Christ did. If it were so, Jesus wouldn’t have said it in John 14:12. The Holy Spirit was given to enable us do greater works than Jesus did. Every word documented/spoken in the Bible was not mere words and none was spoken as a result of lack of what to say. Rather, they were spoken in righteousness (2 Timothy 3:16). Therefore, “greater works” entail greater works. In the Book of Mark Chapter 16, Jesus told the disciples “these signs shall accompany you wherever you go, in my name you shall cast out demons, and heal the sick. As the disciples of Jesus went out to preach the Gospel, there was a massive surrender of people’s lives to God and miracles were taking place everywhere they went. There was a sporadic, sudden and radical conversion of sinners to Christ. My prayer today is that our ministry, as believers and ministers of God, shall be accompanied with signs and wonders. Greater works are the proof of our ministries and we must live to fulfil this great expectation. Don’t forget the entire universe is waiting for the manifestation of the Sons of God. You cannot afford to disappoint your generation. Are you making a positive or nil impact? You are created to make positive impact everywhere you go and on everyone you meet. You are created unto good works so that God shall be glorified through you. Your light should shine before men, so that they will see your good works and glorify God. You must realise that you cannot do greater works by your own strength because without God, you can do nothing (John 15:4). Greater works arise as a result of our intimacy with God. We can only bear fruits in our work and ministry, when we abide in Christ and spent time with Him. The secret behind the miracles Jesus disciples performed was God was with them. Mark 16:20, “And they went forth, and preached everywhere, the Lord working with them, and confirming the word with signs following.” God does not only want you to do the works of Christ, HE wants you to do greater works. You are called to depopulate the kingdom of darkness and populate the Kingdom of God through a full blast demonstration of the Power of Christ. Do not forget that the power for greater works comes through the empowerment of the Holy Spirit. It is not by your might nor by power but by the Spirit of God. Today’s Nugget: Greater works are the proof of your ministry
Prayer:  Lord, I receive Grace to do greater works than Christ did.
Prayer lines: 09078154261.
E-mail: evangelgospel@yahoo.com
Dr. Chidi Okoroafor, General Superintendent, Assemblies of God Nigeria. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .