Visionscape Sanitation Solutions Limited Sequel to the recent fire out break at Olusosun dumpsite, Ojota, Lagos, the environmental utility group contracted to implement the Cleaner Lagos Initiative (CLI), Visionscape Sanitation Solutions, will now focus on the development and maintenance of infrastructure in a new waste management agreement. The agreement was a result of amicable resolution of the court ordered negotiation between Visionscape and the Private Sector Participants (PSP) operators trigged by the unfortunate fire outbreak at the dumpsite. Chief Executive Officer of Visionscape, John Irvine said the incident further highlighted the need for urgent environmental remediation and the development of infrastructure to manage the 13,000 tons of waste generated daily in Lagos. Although Visionscape is 90 per cent into the completion of the three transfer loading stations in the state and have started the construction of the first engineered landfill in Epe, the development of more transfer loading stations and other waste infrastructure has become more expedient. According to Irvine, Visionscape will yield residential waste collection to PSP operators also known as Waste Collection Operators (WCOs), while the company focuses on the development and maintenance of the right infrastructure needed to achieve an environmentally sustainable state. He stressed that the company’s primary concern will be the development of the waste management infrastructure including the transfer loading stations, biomass plant, recycling facility, waste to energy plants, land fill and dumpsite remediation and waste water treatment infrastructure. This new direction, he said, is intended to guarantee that waste collected across the state is disposed according to globally accepted standards. Irvine also stressed that Visionscape will also continue to provide waste bags and bins for all residents in the state and carry out any intervention required to fill any service gaps that occur. “More importantly, the construction of the engineered landfill in Epe and other strategic sites in the state will prevent environmental hazards like the fire outbreak experienced at the Olusosun dumpsite”, he said. According to the special adviser to the governor on cleaner Lagos initiative, Adebola Shabi, an engineer, it is great that we have been able to partner with Visionscape Sanitation solutions and the PSPs, where all efforts can be pushed towards the success of the Cleaner Lagos Initiative. “ We believe that small businesses are the true engine of economic growth and should be encouraged at all levels. “We are also finding opportunities to provide an infrastructure and awareness initiatives that will enable an effective waste management system. “ Visionscape Sanitation Solutions and the PSPs are an inspiration to all and we look forward to a successful working relationship”, he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .