 Ukachi  As Priest, He was holy, merciful, faithful, compassionate, selfless and obedient to His Father. These are priestly qualities we should cultivate as believers. These qualities would enable us to serve like Christ did. As King, Jesus stood against all forms of injustice and withstood the authority of the Pharisees and rulers like Pilate. When Pilate asked Jesus if he was a King, he boldly responded, “You say rightly that I am a king. For this cause I was born, and for this cause I have come into the world, that I should bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth hears my voice.” (John 18:37). From inception, Christ redeemed us to be priests and kings unto Himself. 1 Peter 2:9, states, “But you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, his own special people, that you may proclaim the praises of Him who has called you out of darkness into his marvelous light; who once were not a people but are now the people of God, who had not obtained mercy but now have obtained the mercy of God.” This passage reveals our priestly role than our kingly role. Our priesthood is to worship God and to proclaim His praises. Exercise Dominion But we are not only priests but also kings. Some tend to de-emphasise our priestly ministry and emphasise more on the kingly office. But they complement each other. At creation, Adam and Eve were commanded to exercise dominion. Their God-given dominion was the authority to rule and reign as vicegerent of the earth. Through Christ, we are beneficiaries of this dominion that God gave to man at creation. As kings, we are expected to reign in every sphere of life and reflect the virtues of Christ. We Reign With Christ By virtue of our identity in Christ, we occupy a position in Him in the heavenly place. We died with Him and we were resurrected with Him. When He was exalted, we were exalted with Him and made to sit in the heavenly place with Christ Jesus. “But God, who is rich in mercy, because of His great love with which He loved us, 5 even when we were dead in trespasses, made us alive together with Christ (by grace you have been saved), 6 and raised us up together, and made us sit together in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus.” (Eph.2: 4-6). Though Jesus is seated in the heavenly place, He reigns through His church on the earth. Daniel, A Pattern
  
Daniel’s life in Babylon is a template of how to reign as Priests and Kings. Daniel was not a priest, but reigned in the office of a Priest and King in Babylon. As a Priest, he ministered to the Lord in prayer three times daily. He also interceded for Israel and interpreted dreams to the different kings in Babylon. As a King, he reigned over the earthly kings of Babylon, he reigned over lions, and he reigned over his detractors and persecutors. He reigned over men and the national affairs in Babylon, as Prime Minister. His priestly functions gave him the spiritual insight and strength to rule and reign as King. His effective functioning in the priestly office gave him the ability and wisdom to reign, as a king in Babylon. Contact: pastoracukachi@gmail.com To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .