PHOTO: FACEBOOK / ATIKU ABUBAKAR/GUARDIAN NIGERIA A pan Nigerian movement, Re-building Nigeria Initiative (RNI), which seeks to advocate for the development and growth of Nigeria and the protection of its citizens’ rights and privileges, is canvassing support for the former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar ahead of the 2019 presidential election. Atiku, who recently defected from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to the major opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), to realise his presidential ambition is being showcase by the movement as the most credible alternative to lead the country. Explaining reason it feels, Atiku is the best candidate to take the country out of the present socio-economic and political crisis, the Deputy National President of RNI, Otunba Earnest ’Wale Fasan said the movement decided to pitch its tent with Atiku is because he parades the best credentials in terms of experience and acceptability across the six geo-political zones. According to him, “Apart from the fact that Atiku is not and has never been labeled with ethnic sentiment, he also understands the dynamics of governing a multi-ethnic and religiously sensitive country like Nigeria. His success in running businesses would assist him in channeling the economic potentials of the country to the utmost best of the citizens.” Fasan added that major prominent personalities in the country, especially from the South and the north are familiar with Atiku, when it comes to politics. Meanwhile, a statement by the General Secretary of the group, Mr. Christian Aburime says that RNI would be formally launched in Lagos on Sunday. Aburime said the organization would embark on grassroots mobilization for the ‘Atiku 2019’ campaign with the aim of educating and enlightening the Nigerian electorates to align and support the presidential ambition of Atiku According to him, “We are currently encouraging our membership across the 774 local governments to participate actively in the coming election by obtaining their Permanent Voters Card (PVC) and also ensure they vote and stand by their votes. The group boasts of a formidable structure in Lagos and the Southwest. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .