Nigeria’s Vice President Yemi Osinbajo The Federal Executive Council (FEC) yesterday approved a total of N61.464 billion to facilitate the dredging of seaport, roads and construction of buildings. This was the outcome of a seven hours meeting of the council Presided over by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. The Ministers of Works, Power, and Housing, Babatunde Fashola; Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi; Interior, Abdulrahman Danbazzau; Water Resources, Suleiman Adamu; Education, Adamu Adamu and the Senior Special Assistant on Media and publicity, Garba Shehu, briefed State House correspondents immediately after the meeting. Amaechi said that the council approved N13 billion for dredging of Escravos Warri Seaport and the replacement of the bad navigational aids. Fashola disclosed that his Ministry presented three memos, which resulted in the approval of three contracts. He said the projects included Baban Lamba – Sharam road in Plateau State at a cost of N19.92 billion, Lagos – Ota – Abeokuta road revised upward by N22 billion to a total of N56.7 billion and Enugu -Port Harcourt expressway at a cost of N6.31 billion. Danbazzau said that N234 million was approved for construction of two buildings, cadet mess and cafeteria. Adamu disclosed that FEC approved the establishment of a Nigeria Army University to be cited in Biu, Borno State. He did not provide details. The Water Resources Minister said that his ministry also presented a policy memo highlighting the crisis facing water and sanitization in the country and the need for government to take action. Garba Shehu told newsmen that the Minister of Women Affairs, briefed council on women empowerment programme undertaken, capacity development for women, promotion of human rights, fighting violence against women, rehabilitation of victims of gender violence, promoting the health of women and children, and efforts on the rescue of Chibok and Dapchi girls. He said Council resolved to set up an inter-ministerial committee to fashion out a marshal plan for the ministry to sit down and advise government on how policies and programmers can be better disseminated. Speaking with State House correspondents after briefing FEC, the Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Mrs. Hadiza Bala Usman, said her agency was at FEC to seek approval for the dredging works for Escravos channel in Warri and its navigation.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .