 Michael Cohen (C), U.S. President Donald Trump’s personal attorney, chats with friends near the Loews Regency hotel on Park Ave on April 13, 2018 in New York City. Following FBI raids on his home, office and hotel room, the Department of Justice announced that they are placing him under criminal investigation. Yana Paskova/Getty Images/AFP Yana Paskova / GETTY IMAGES NORTH AMERICA / AFP  US Attorney Robert Khuzami, in a motion filed with a US District Court judge in New York, redacted the alleged criminal conduct for which Cohen is being investigated. The Justice Department filing was in response to a request by Cohen for a temporary restraining order that would prevent law enforcement from reviewing certain material seized by FBI agents on Monday. FBI agents searched Cohen’s home, hotel room, office, a safety deposit box and seized two cellphones in a raid on Monday that drew a furious reaction from Trump. Trump denounced the FBI raid on “good man” Cohen as “disgraceful” and an “attack on our country.” Cohen has been Trump’s personal lawyer for years and has acknowledged making a $130,000 payment before the 2016 election to porn star Stormy Daniels, who says she had a tryst with Trump a decade ago. Cohen has long been known as Trump’s rough-and-tumble “fixer” dedicated to protecting his boss’s interests. According to The Washington Post, Cohen may be under examination for possible bank fraud and for campaign finance violations. Cohen’s lawyer cited attorney-client privilege in seeking to restrict access to “documents and communications related to numerous clients.” ‘One client – Donald Trump’ 
But the government said Cohen appears to have only one client  Donald Trump. “The (US Attorney) and FBI have reason to believe that Cohen has exceedingly few clients and a low volume of potentially privileged communications,” the Justice Department motion said. “It is neither apparent that Cohen, in his capacity as an attorney, has many, or any, attorney-client relationships other than with President Donald Trump,” it said. “Although Cohen is an attorney, he also has several other business interests and sources of income,” the motion said, and he “is being investigated for criminal conduct that largely centers on his personal business dealings.” “The searches are the result of a months-long investigation into Cohen, and seek evidence of crimes, many of which have nothing to do with his work as an attorney, but rather relate to Cohen’s own business dealings,” it added. US District Judge Kimba Wood put off making any decision until Monday at the earliest. Stormy Daniels lawyer in court 
Present in the courtroom Friday was Michael Avenatti, the lawyer for Stormy Daniels, who is seeking to have the courts throw out a hush agreement prohibiting her from talking about her affair with Trump. Daniels is among several women who claim to have had affairs with Trump in the past and were pressured or paid to keep quiet about them. Trump has denied any knowledge of Cohen’s payment to secure Daniel’s October 2016 signature on a secret agreement preventing her from talking about the affair. The raid on Cohen’s home and office came as special counsel Robert Mueller’s probe intensifies its focus on the president’s inner circle. Mueller’s team is examining possible collusion between Trump’s 2016 election campaign team and Russia, as well as allegations of corrupt behavior by Trump campaign lieutenants and of White House efforts to obstruct the investigation.So far, 19 people have been indicted, including the chairman of Trump’s campaign and his former national security advisor.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .