Peter Neilsen, husband to Nigerian singer, Alizee Nielsen was accused of the murder of she and her four-year-old daughter, Petra in their Ocean Parade Towers, Banana Island home yesterday (the 5th of April) morning. In reaction to the news, the Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, SP Chike Oti, has said that the suspect has been arrested at the Ikoyi Police station and investigations have begun: “The state Commissioner of Police, Edgal Imohimi, has ordered the arrest of the suspect and he is in police custody. It is pre-emptive now to ascertain the cause of the incident. The CP has dispatched crime scene investigators to the place to pick evidences for analysis which can be used for prosecution. The command has also written the Embassy of the suspect that the police are investigating the case.” Her management had earlier released a press statement saying: “Petra Entertainment Limited has received with shock news of the sudden demise of our artist Nielsen Zainab Joy (Aged 29) and her daughter Nielsen Petra (Aged 4) at their Banana Island, Lagos home on the 5th of April 2018. The late Nielsen Zainab Joy (also known as Alizee) was a Nigerian citizen married to Nielsen Peter Schau a Danish citizen resident in Nigeria.
 “While we exercise restraint in making public comments on the circumstances surrounding the demise of Alizee and her daughter, – in order not to prejudices on-going police investigations – it has become important to correct some misinformation presently circulating in the media space. In this regard, we state that the husband of the late Nielsen Zainab Joy who is also the father of the late Nielsen Petra is Nielsen Peter Schau. Nielsen Peter Schau is a Danish citizen and not an Italian or Asian as has been reported by several media outlets.
 “We call all law enforcement agencies to speedily unravel the circumstances surrounding the demise of these vibrant Nigerians and bring all complicit persons and/or entities to justice. In the light of reports suggesting that Alizee’s husband may be under Police investigation in connection with these painful deaths, We particularly call on the Nigerian immigration Services to remain vigilant at this time and urge the cooperation of all foreign missions in the country. Our thoughts and prayers go out to the relatives of the late Zainab and Petra” She was signed to Petra Entertainment, an Asian based Entertainment firm. GreenLight ft Del B  Masa  Come and Take 