Last week’s lemons were turned into lemonades this week. People around the world lost their voices and for good reasons. With Beyonce and Kendrick Lamar making history, this week could not have been any better. These are the stories that made our week. Photo Koko TV The 10th edition of the Shorty Awards (an award that celebrates content producers, influencers and brands that are strongly positioned across the social media and digital platforms), saw some bad moments when the host of the awards show, Adams Pally, used his position to bring the awards to disrepute for 10 minutes while referring to it as a ‘shit’ show before he was led offstage by an usher. On the good side, Chimamanda Adichie won the ‘Best Prize in Literature’. Beyonce. Photo credit Harper’s Bazaar Beyonce changed the game with her two-hour performance at Coachella. Not only did she pay homage to Afrobeat pioneer Fela Anikulapo-Kuti, she defied the status quo to have 10 black women play the violin (talk about a Historically Black Colleges and Universities reunion). She also set a Youtube record with 458,000 live streams from 232 countries. Who runs the world?! Man like Kendrick Photo Credit: Billboard Kendrick Lamar on Monday became the first rapper to win the Pulitzer Prize for Music. This will make him the first hip-hop artiste to win the prize that recognises classical and jazz sounds. The Pulitzer board described DAMN as “a virtuosic song collection unified by its vernacular authenticity and rhythmic dynamism…capturing the complexity of modern African American life”. J. Cole. Photo credit: Youtube After a surprise concert on Monday, one of hip-hop’s heavyweight, J.Cole released his new album ‘KOD’ on Friday. Call it what you want: Kidz On Drugz, King Overdose and Kill Our Demonz, we hope the 12-track album is everything that J.Cole represents. Pepper spray. Photo Sabre Red It is time to bid pepper spray goodbye. The self-defense tool was tagged by the Assistant Commissioner of Police and head of Nigerian’s Police Public Complaint Rapid Response Unit (PCRRU), Abayomi Shogunle, as an “offensive weapon” in a response to a girl who tweeted that she was arrested for having it in her posession.