 BBNaija season 3 housemate, Ifu Ennada  “I witnessed the Real Deal Experience in Enugu and promised myself to come to Aba for the next one and I was not disappointed. The performances were amazing, seeing Ifu Ennada in real life made me so happy. It was a really good way to spend my Easter holiday,” he said.  “I’m grateful to Legend Extra Stout for giving me this opportunity. It was a great show, you cannot take away the fun from Aba people; I love their energy and I will like to thank them for always coming out. I’m very humbled,” Mr Raw said.
 
Ifu Ennada did a good job by keeping the crowd alive and well entertained. Legend Extra Stout also provided a sensory room, whereby consumers were able to learn more about the real stout.
 
Affirming what Mr. Raw said, the Portfolio Manager Mainstream, Lager and Stout brands of the Nigerian Breweries, Emmanuel Agu said, “The energy in Aba is exhilarating, the fans could not contain their excitement. We are glad Legend Extra Stout is able to provide a platform for people to come together to unwind, relax and have fun. It was sure a good way to celebrate the Easter holiday and we are glad we were able to achieve all we planned tonight and more.”
 
Every activity was engaging, from the role-plays to the DJ, to the amazing performances, it was a night fully packed with excitement. Lucky members in the audience went home with exciting gifts such as refrigerators, generators, televisions, face caps, t-shirts, and free drinks from the Taste, Tell and Win competition.
 
In its usual tradition of celebrating legends, the extra stout brand celebrated chairman of Chemlap Nigeria Limited, Dr. Emmanuel Adaelu (MFR), a courageous man who worked tirelessly from a humble beginning to become a Legend. Speaking on the recognition, Adaelu said, “Honesty leads to credibility, and only a credible man can be regarded as a legend. This is one of the quality I admire in a man.”
 
In recognizing his legendary feats, the stout brand torch was presented to him by public affairs manager (South) NBPlc., Uzodinna Odenigbo
 
The Real Deal Experience has held in cities including Lagos, Ibadan, Onitsha, Umuahia, Abuja, Port Harcourt, Abakaliki, and Owerri. It has featured some of Nigeria’s biggest entertainers including MI, Timaya, 9ice, Kcee, Oritsefemi and Small Doctor among others. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .