  In a telephone chat with The Guardian, former senators, Prof. Seth Akintoye and a Third Republic senator, Anthony Adefuye, condemned the act. They described it as near anarchy, as the nation is getting closer to the next general election. While Akintoye said the development posed serious security threats to the nation, Adefuye described the incidence as a threat to Nigeria’s democracy but should not be treated as treasonable felony. “While I agree the act was condemnable, I do not see it as a treasonable felony,” Adefuye said. Also, National Chairmen, African Democratic Congress (ADC), Chief Ralph Nwosu and Dr. Yunusa Tanko of the National Conscience Party (NCP), alleged that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in collaboration with some senators on its platform were attempting to frustrate the legislative arm of government. Read More: Nigerian Twitter reacts to Senate show of shame The parties said until the Executive-led APC allows the tenets of democracy to work by allowing the independence of the legislature, “the country may likely not have elections in 2019.” Nwosu said it appears the APC government is gradually clamping down on the democratic system with a subtle agenda to subdue the legislative arm, which is the fulcrum of civil rule. According to him: “The senator accused of masterminding the act must be brought to book. This also shows the kind of characters representing Nigerians on the platform of the APC.” Tanko said Ovie Omo-Agege’s conduct has coloured our democracy into ‘hoodlum democracy,’ saying there is a state of anarchy already. Meanwhile, President, Arewa Youth Consultative Forum (AYCF), Alhaji Yerima Shetima, said there must be full investigation of the matter and drastic measures should be taken against those found culpable. Shettima, who described the incidence as a big embarrassment to the country, said: “It shows a lot about how the present government came to be where different kinds of characters, like Ovie Omo-Agege, were elected into public office on the platform of the ruling party.” He also alleged conspiracy, which he said, must be investigated appropriately. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .