Toyin Saraki Wife Of the Senate President, Toyin Ojora Saraki has called for the full implementation of Universal Health Coverage (UCH) to reduce maternal death across the country. Making this submission Tuesday in Abuja during a courtesy visit by the World Health Organisation (WHO), Saraki noted that the successful implementation of the UHC will increase workforce for the health sector and increase the number of trained personnels in medical centres. According to Saraki, implementation of UHC would ensure that everyone have access to quality health services without facing financial hardship irrespective of were they live or who they are. She said, “ If universal health coverage is successful it means that pregnant women wont have to pay huge fees for medical care. They would have a trained and skilled health attendants, also they would find the right equipment in the medical centre that guarantees quality health care delivery.” She said that the UHC is a powerful equaliser that would ensure health for all Nigerians, enhance health security, reduce poverty and promote gender equality in the country. Saraki also called for the full implementation of the Personal Health Record (PHR) at all levels of the health system to ensure proper health records for mother and child. She added that the implementation would give the mother right over their choices of medical care for themselves and their children. “The PHR will provide vital statistics needed to monitor changes within the health sector and contribute to the development of reporting and publication by the WHO”. Speaking, the Regional Director, WHO, Matshidiso Moeti called on Nigerian Government and other African countries to honour their commitment towards achieving UHC for all citizens by 2030. Moeti said Nigeria and other African countries must strive to improve health governance and information systems to ensure better regulation, planning and accountability to their communities and partners. Moeti said: “Member States should address the persistent challenges of inadequate health workforce. Ethiopia exemplifies how investment in health workers, and specifically community health workers contribute to improved delivery of essential health services.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .