 Utibe Akwa  The young entrepreneur and business woman who is into production of over 30  cosmetology products shares her inspiring story with me in this interview. Growing up My childhood prepared me for this. The orientation I received while growing up culminated to making and shaping me into who I am today. In this respect, I may say education plays a very  minimal role. This is so because education never made me this self-reliant, but the orientation I had gotten. As far back as my primary school, I had always wanted to be an entrepreneurial mogul. I had flare for innovations and had envied some entrepreneurial kingpins like  Dangote. It was here I nurtured my thought for self-dependency. Meet Me!
Utibe Akwa is a persistent, committed, goal-oriented fellow who executes and impacts knowledge with passion. She has HND in Business Administration and Management from Akwa Ibom State Polytechnic with an award as the best graduating student in Nov 2015. She is currently undertaking her Post Graduate(PGD) studies in Economics with The University of Uyo, Uyo. She is a Certified NIM, CPM,and undergoing ICAN program. Utibe is the youngest street Entrepreneur, a CEO of Utytrends Nig, who is into production of over 35 cosmetology products and the newly launched product “Unique milky Custard”. She teaches and offers training across the 31 LGA in Akwa Ibom state, with over 200 participants in each LGA. She is an educator, a street Entrepreneur and an Innovator. Starting my entrepreneurial journey as a student
      
The yardstick is simple, and that has to do with my  take-off age.  It’s on record that my entrepreneurial strides  began at an age as green as 13, with bead making, way back in my village, Ibiono Ibom LGA. I  had long ago started  as a teenager and, and this was  the yardstick for the tag “Youngest entrepreneur” and I took the giant stride into the university as wel. Being the young manufacturer of a custard brand Unique milky Custard is my newly launched product, a Custard powder that is rich in formula (milk+sugar+salt) rich in vitamin, rich in protein. I launched this product on the 30th of March2018. I was inspired to do this when I discovered the Gap in Custard consumption. I felt a need to address the issues and stress of buying milk and sugar after making Custard. I had to create something new, by adding these ingredients to my custard production to make it different from ordinary custard in the market. The drive behind this was to fill in the Gap. Challenges No human venture exists without challenges. Mine is not exceptional. One of such challenges I have faced overtime in the course of this business is finance.  As the  demand for this product is getting high everyday and so many super markets and shops have been demanding for my products,  I am limited as I am yet to be certified with NAFDAC and SON and other relevant agencies. Another challenge is lack of machinery, getting machines for my productions as to produce in larger quantity as well as ameliorating the stress of producing it manually.
     
Other Projects and Activities Aside production of unique milky custard, am also into other prospects including trainings, organizing Entrepreneurial seminars, and production of cosmetology products Greatest Reward The greatest reward Is that I have been able to touch lives, reaching the apex of my passion, able to affect the society in a very special way, be an inspiration to Nigeria youths and feel so fulfilled by motivating and encouraging the youths to right against dependency syndrome after graduation. My Reward also lies when I turn back to see that I have been able to trained and raised manufacturers in over 35 cosmetics products. Giving up Yes, I nearly gave up November 2017 when I first introduced my products to the market.  At this time, all colleagues of mine and friends turned to ridicule me that as the best Graduating students, I should be working in a financial institution and/or any of the multinationals, rather than producing liquid soap. But giving up isn’t and has never been an option for me. So I poached on with the faith that my desire flies to enviable heights. Today I am there! I don’t allow myself to be worked up nor discourage,  but press towards the mark . Where I see my brand in the next  next 5 years
      
Five years is even too much. In the next few years I see my brand to be among the best 3 producing firms in Nigeria and beyond with good equipments and qualified staff, with branches across different states in Nigeria. My Brand will be known at national and international Level. Who and what Inspire me My source and all strength come from the Lord our creator, the comments, encouragements and reactions of people inspire me most. My mum serves as an inspiration to me. Mostly, my unborn children and my would-be husband are my inspiration – l would always want them proud of me. Being a Woman of Rubies I am a woman of Rubies because I act and serve as an inspiration to many. I add value to my family, my community, my state, my nation as a whole.I kick against the syndrome of depending on government, parents and guidance for job, but I have risen to the faith of my greatness knowing very well that once the passion is right everything is possible. Final word for young female entrepreneurs 1.Determination (2) consistency and (3) Persistence. It is one thing to embark on a prospect, it’s another to remain on top gear of the prospect. That said, one would realise that the business environment in our contemporary society is thorny, unfriendly, competitive and challenging; thus, it takes only resilience, persistence and passion to sustain and thrive up to one’s aspirational levels. Message for women all over the world
Believe and unlock the strength of a woman that lurks inside of them. Women are great creatures laced with mystifying but unfathomable strength. When tapped, this strength can change their fates and fortunes for good and dazzles the world. They should, by all means, be self-dependent and self-reliant, by creating their desired world with the strength of their God-given potential. They should do well to inculcate good virtues on their kids, which would further affect the succeeding generation.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .