 Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) governor Godwin Emefiele  Through Oradian’s toolset, which includes its cloud-based core banking system (CBS) Instafin, financial institutions are enabled to grow and reach more clients with digital financial services. The company’s mission – to boost financial inclusion by delivering the tools financial institutions need to reach more clients in rural communities – supports Nigeria’s goal of meeting 80 per cent financial inclusion target by 2020 as set by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). According to Oradian Co-founder and Head of Implementation, Onyeka Adibeli, “Oradian’s cloud-based CBS enables financial institutions to go digital. Paired with guidance and support from our in-market teams, we are enabling the successful digital transformation and implementation of global best practice for our community of financial institutions.” To accelerate financial inclusion in Nigeria and to share best practice for going digital with cloud technology, Oradian will host a dinner event in Lagos as part of the Africa Banking and Finance Conference, today, April 10. The event is designed to bring leaders of financial institutions, regulatory groups, financial inclusion experts, the Central Bank and fintech providers together to build strategic partnerships that will boost financial inclusion in Nigeria and West Africa at large. The event will connect the private sector, public sector and financial services regulators. “Strategic partnerships within the digital ecosystem are proving to be the most effective way to enable our customers to provide better service to their end-clients,” says the Chief Executive Officer and Co-founder of Oradian, Antonio Separovic. Oradian is demonstrating the value of strategic public-private partnerships in Southeast Asia with the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and Cantilan Bank, one of the top rural banks in the Philippines. Backed by a $150,000 ADB grant, Cantilan Bank will use Oradian’s toolset to demonstrate how cloud technology can unlock financial opportunities by providing access to financial services for hard-to-reach individuals in rural areas. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .