Augustine Oladepo of Enyimba (left) challenges Daylon Claasen of Bidvest Wits during the CAF Confederation Cup match at Bidvest Stadium. PHOTO: BACKPAGEPIX. Former African champions, Enyimba of Aba has dismissed Gavin Hunt’s claim that his team, Bidvets Wits, was maltreated in Nigeria before and after its CAF Confederation Cup second leg match in Calabar last week. Bidvest Wits held Enyimba to a goalless draw at the U.J Esuene Stadium, Calabar, but the Peoples Elephants beat the South Africans to the group stage ticket on the away goals rule having drawn the first leg in Johannesburg 1-1. Hunt told South African media yesterday that his team was subjected to shocking treatment during the trip to Nigeria, adding that his players were subjected to rather shoddy meals and other logistical issues. “Have you understood what we’ve done in the last week or two? It was a nightmare, a disgrace. Things like that shouldn’t be in football,” lamented Hunt. “It’s a joke [what happened out there], I’m not even going to get into it. You guys should come, and then you’ll know about it instead of criticising us for getting knocked out. “We can’t play there… Red cards again, disallowed goals, tackles are … you know, it’s crazy. The pitch, I mean, it was … Anyway, I don’t want to talk about it.” Reacting to Hunt’s allegations, Enyimba’s Jude Anyadufu said the South African coach must have been talking about another game and not the one they played in Calabar. “This is why I don’t like football. People say all sorts of things to justify their failure without minding what such things do to the other person’s reputation. “We did not have a hand in their accommodation because the new CAF rule states that visiting teams should take care of its logistics. They came with a Nigerian, Mohammed Mohammed, who arranged things for them. On arrival they went straight to Transcorp Hotel to lodge. “This is a man who invited us to have a drink with him after the match and told us of the troubles he had in his club. Now he has gone back to accuse us of maltreatment. Haba! “We did not even complain that they flew in the same flight with the referee and left with him after the match. “When we went to South Africa we arranged our stay and even organized Nigerian food for our team. We did not complain.” Anyadufu also faulted Hunt’s claim that Wits scored a goal that was disallowed, saying rather that Enyimba lost a penalty that would have given it victory in the game. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .