 Gernot Rohr1  Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr has arrived in the country to lay the grounds for Nigeria’s final phase of preparations for the 2018 World Cup taking place in Russia.  While in the country, the Franco-German will meet with the Nigeria Football Federation’s (NFF) top officials and other critical stakeholders to scrutinise the arrangements for the team’s camping and movement when the players converge for the final phase of the preparation. Super Eagles’ Media Officer, Toyin Ibitoye told The Guardian yesterday   that Rohr would release the team’s provisional list for the World Cup on May 22, adding that the coach has already drawn the list of the players to be submitted to FIFA. According to Ibitoye, the Super Eagles’ send-forth friendly match against DR Congo on May 28 would serve as an opportunity for Nigerian football fans to have a first hand feel of the team at home before the World Cup. “Our focus is on the DR Congo friendly now. By June 4, the final list of the team would be released. Arrangements are in in top gear for the Eagles success in Russia. The players are also in high spirit to make the nation proud in Russia,” he said. Read More: NFF settles Super Eagles coaches’ salaries up to July Meanwhile, Argentina Coach, Jorge Sampaoli is planning to add former Juventus striker, Carlos Tevez to his 35-man preliminary list for the Russia 2018 World Cup.The latest development, according to Fox Sports Argentina, is not unconnected with the uncertainty surrounding injured Sergio Aguero’s fitness for the competition. Fox Sports Argentina tweeted yesterday that Sampaoli was considering giving Tevez a recall, but the latest development has generated hot debate among Argentines, who still find it difficult to understand why the coach doesn’t want to give Mauro Icardi a chance to fight for jersey in the team. Tevez was part of Argentina’s 2015 Copa America team in Chile and also took part in a few 2018 World Cup qualifying matches afterwards. Aguero had surgery on his knee yesterday and is set to miss the rest of the season for English champions-elect, Manchester City. The former Atletico Madrid star tweeted yesterday that he is recovering from arthroscopic surgery on his knee.Diario Ole reports that he won’t be in action for at least three to four weeks, which could allow him to recover just in time for the big tournament. MundoAlbiceleste revealed yesterday that Sampaoli is expected in Europe in the next few weeks to speak with a large number of players, adding that he has already started speaking with players based in the domestic league. The coach reportedly has 34 of the 35 players for the preliminary list tied down, while there is still space for any of the omitted stars to join the party. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .