Prince Ned Nwoko A former member of the House of Representatives, Prince Ned Nwoko, who is currently seeking to contest for Delta North senatorial district in the 2019 election on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Delta State, has commenced consultations among the party’s stakeholders in his local government area of Aniocha North and other councils in the zone. Nwoko, officially commenced dialogue with some leaders of the PDP in Delta north, among which were women groups, youth organisations, artisans and others. Addressing party executives and members in Aniocha North, Ndokwa, Ika and Kwale recently, the former lawmaker said time has come for Delta North voters to get the right representation in the upper chamber of the legislative arm. He stressed that Nigerians are now aware of the importance of quality representation, which he promised to offer if given the chance in the next election. According to him, “Having consulted widely, I considered myself as the best candidate to represent Delta North in 2019.” Nwoko also promised to restore dignity to Anioma politics if elected, adding that the calibers and personality of legislators, who represents the zone in the senate matters a lot. But he said the big task before the electorate is to ensure that they collect their Permanent Voters Card (PVCs), which according to him is the power they have to effect change of any government even at the federal level. He added that it is the turn of Aniocha to produce the next senator to represent Delta North senatorial district. He stressed: “The office of the senator requires a distinguished personality not one that continually brings shame and reproach to a people or somebody that is disconnected with the needs of his constituency.” He said Aniocha has been seriously shortchanged and the area could no longer continue to be relegated. “We need quality representation and Anioma people a must watch whom we send to Abuja to represent us in 2019. “Let me further tell you that as far as this contest is concerned, I have no rival. I know I am eminently qualified and positioned to emerge victorious by your support, endorsement and active role in the process,” he said. The Aniocha North PDP Chairman, Prince Victor Egbune in his speech canvassed for full and unrelenting support for the PDP in the next general election, saying that the present situation in the country seriously requires a change. He added that Nwoko came for official consultation with the PDP in the local government, where he is a bona-fide and active member; after which he would do declaration based on Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) timetable. He said, “But I must emphasize that Nwoko is our son and while we would not discriminate, we must also ensure that a level playing field is provided for all to advance their political aspirations.” As a member of House of Representative from 1999 to 2003, Nwoko sponsored a Bill for the establishment of a National Information Network Centre and a bill for an Act establishing a National Disability Allowance. Other bills he sponsored are an Act for prohibition of corporal punishment in schools, a Bill for an Act for compulsory vehicle road worthiness test, National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) reform bill (2000), bill for an Act to establish public funds recovery and reward commission and a bill for an Act for the establishment of a National Minimum Wages Council.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .