Okowa The Delta State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has promised to conduct a free, fair and level playing ground for those aspiring for elective positions on its platform in the coming 2019 elections. The party’s position is hinged on the apprehension expressed by some of the aspirants, particularly a Delta North senatorial aspirant, Prince Ned Nwoko against the chairman of his zone of being biased, even ahead of the primary. But the state Publicity Secretary, Mr. Ifeanyi Michael Osuoza said the party is determination to ensure a level playing field for the aspirants. Nwoko’s fear may not be unconnected with the recent allegation over the decision of the Delta North PDP chairman, Mr. Moses Iduh to convene the zone’s stakeholders’ meeting at the Ibusa residence of incumbent senator, Peter Nwaoboshi, who is also seeking reelection next year. But the party’s Spokesman pledged to ensure fairness and equity, which he said would be done in accordance to the regulations of the PDP as contained in its constitution, which had also been assured by the National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus and Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. According to Osuoza, “The leaderships of the party have pledged commitment to fair play and no imposition of candidates. They have also assured us that a level playing field would be provided for every qualified contestant in the forthcoming primary elections for all positions.” He said the desire and ultimate expectations of the party is to encourage and engender healthy, robust, fair and vigorous competition, with comprehensive campaigns across all the constituencies. Read More: Ibori honoured for developing Ijawland According to him, “The pledge was also made in cognizance of the fact that there may be situations where the collective decision of the people support the emergence and endorsement of a consensus candidate and in the event of such, the party shall ensure that such consensus arrangements meet all the globally approved and accepted democratic standards.” Osuoza stressed: “Democracy must be entrenched and applied to the letter to guarantee a conclusion that will involve collective participation and be satisfactory to all.” He urged the aspirants to continue with their preparations without fear of intimidation, covert or overt scheming or any other calculated or perceived act interpreted to short-change, undermine or diminish their chances and prospects. Osuoza also appealed to the contestants and their supporters not to heat up the polity in the course of their activities, saying, “Even as he urged them to ensure that they go to their respective units and wards to register and collect their Permanent Voters Cards  (PVC) to ensure enable them vote for their choice candidates in 2019.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .