Ahmedu Musa Kida Nigeria to host World Cup qualifiers 
The Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) made a landmark achievement yesterday when it signed a N600 million sponsorship deal with oil giants, Total, which has now become the title sponsor of the National Division One and Two basketball leagues. Addressing journalists in Lagos yesterday at the Total Nigeria’s Head Office, NBBF President, Musa Kida said his board’s determination to develop at the game at the grassroots informed its decision to join forces with Total to provide an amiable environment for upcoming players to thrive. He noted that the full sponsorship of the lower leagues, which is the first of its kind in the country, would feature 74 teams from across the nooks and crannies of the country. Kida enjoined local basketball clubs to register for the leagues, saying that it would go a long way in launching them to the peak of their career. “After spending 32 years in Total, I am delighted to be part of this milestone sponsorship deal with the oil company. When I assumed office, my focal point was to ensure basketball is played across the country at the domestic level. This sponsorship deal will assist the youths neglected at the grassroots to play basketball. The players would not gather at one venue to play basketball any more. “The launching of this new league format is part of the present board’s achievements after D’Tigers and D’Tigress excelled at the African championships last year. “I will also like to let you know that Nigeria would be hosting the second stanza of the World Cup qualifiers. Nigerians would now have the opportunity to watch their basketball stars,” he said. He added that the NBBF was discussing with Kwese Sports on the sponsorship of the Nigeria Premier League, adding that talks are also on for the female national league. In his remarks, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Total Upstream Companies in Nigeria, Nicolas Terraz said the firm was determined to develop Nigerian basketball and other sports. “Today, we take the bold step to sponsor Nigerian basketball. Total has been involved in sponsoring football events like the Nations Cup and other sports. The company acknowledges that they have been part of the make up of Nigeria for more than 60 years. Total as a brand hopes that the support would spur Nigerian basketball teams to glory in both local and international campaigns. I am delighted that the company is part of this deal, “he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .