Governor Abiola Ajimobi Oyo State government has approved 48 monarchs across the state to wear beaded crowns and coronets. The state Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism disclosed this in Ibadan, the state capital. He said among them, 26 Obas would wear beaded crowns, while the remaining 22 would be coronet-wearing monarchs. He disclosed that over 100 applications were received for beaded crowns from all the geo-political zones of the state. According to him, the state took the decision after due consultation with members of the council of Obas and chiefs. The government said the approval was in line with the exercise of powers conferred on the governor by Section 28(1) of the Chiefs Law Cap 28, Vol. 1 Laws of Oyo State of Nigeria. He disclosed that beaded crowns were approved for the Alajaawa of Ajaawa, the Aale of Oke’Lerin, the Onijabata of Jabata, Onigbeti of Igbeti, the Ajoriiwin of Irawo Asawo of Ayete, the Obalufon of Sepeteri, and the trio of the Oluigbo of Igbojaye, the Olokaka of Okaka and Eleyinpo of Ipapo. Others are the Oloje of Oje-Owode, the Otun Olubadan, the Balogun, the Osi Olubadan, the Otun Balogun, the Osi Balogun, the Ashipa of Olubadan, and the Ashipa Balogun. Included also are the Ekerin Olubadan, Ekerin Balogun, the Ekarun Balogun, Ekarun Olubadan, Elempe of Tapa, and the trio of Oniware of Iware, Oni Fiditi of Fiditi and the Onimini of Imini. Arulogun further disclosed that the approved coronet-wearing Obas include the Onijaiye of Ijaiye, Oniroko of Iroko and Onikereku of Ikereku. Others are the Ololodo of Olodo, Elerunmu of Erunmu and Elegbeda of Egbeda, as well as Onido from Ido, Alakufo of Akufo, Oloke of Okelade-Okin, the Olomi of Omi-Adio and Alawotan of Awotan. Also on the beaded crown’s list are the Olofa-Igbo of Ofa Igbo, Onilagun of Lagun, Onilalupon of Lalupon, Onilegbon of Ile-Igbon, Ologburo of Ogburo and the Elejioku of Ejioku. The Alaba of Aba-Nla, Onidiayunre of Idi-Ayunre, Onilatunde of Olatunde, the Alakaran of Akanran and Alajia of Ajia are equally included in the approval. Arulogun disclosed that 23 Obas and chiefs, led by the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, attended the consultative meeting with the Oyo State Council of Obas and Chiefs. This approval is coming on the heels of legal battle that followed the installation of 21 monarchs in Ibadan land, which involved the Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji and a former governor of the state, Rashidi Ladoja. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .