 Nigeria’s Vice President Yemi Osinbajo  Osinbajo was particularly enthusiastic about the Kick-off of the Lekki Deep Sea Port last week. He also expressed appreciation over the Federal Government’s approval of N20 billion for the construction and rehabilitation of Ikorodu-Shagamu Expressway, which the state’s lawmakers and their counterparts in Ogun State helped facilitate. Osinbajo, while representing President Muhammadu Buhari during the Flag-off of the construction of the Deep Sea Port in Ibeju Lekki last week, particularly commended the role played by Senator Gbenga Ashafa of East senatorial district. “I must commend Ashafa for the role he played in the actualization of the Lekki Deep Sea port project. The land where the project is situated was acquired during his tenure as the Executive Secretary of the Lands Bureau of Lagos State and he never ceased to be consistent in activities geared towards the development of the East senatorial district since 2011 when he became a senator.” Osinbajo said the project is expected to create over 170,000 direct and indirect jobs in the nation’s economy when completed “which would be of immense benefit to members of the constituency. “It is a landmark project for several reasons — the promoters of this project are targeting, we are told, about 1.5 million Twenty Equivalent Units (TEU) container capacity annually, which they expected to grow to about 2.7 million and 4.7 million when the project commences.”He expressed excitement at the possibility  of the seaport becoming one of the largest in the West Africa and serving as a hub for ports operations in the region. A former lawmaker of Epe Federal Division, Mr. Lanre Odubote also expressed hope that with the Lekki Deep Seaport, Nigeria  is on the path of sustainable development.“ The Lekki Deep Seaport is a good example and its effect would definitely reverberate across the country because other lawmakers of like mind would henceforth want to leave a legacy like our dear senator and his colleagues are doing in Lagos.” Odubote canvassed support for Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, saying the governor has done a lot to deserve reelection. Ashafa commended the Federal Government for its dedication to ensuring that every nook and cranny of Nigeria enjoys infrastructural projects while also applauding Governor Ambode, and the National Leader of APC, Bola Tinubu for his ability to identify talents that continued from where he stopped in 2007.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .