 Convener of the Youth Enterprise Conference, Akin Alabi congratulating one of the beneficiaries of the support grant  This year, the serial investor and marketing expert empowered 52 young Nigerian entrepreneurs by supporting them with the sum of N5.2 million. He presented the business support grant to the 52 entrepreneurs at the fourth edition of YEC, which held in Lagos. Alabi, had last year through his Akin Alabi Foundation, extended similar gesture to 50 entrepreneurs with a granting of N5 million to be specifically invested in their business ideas. This brings the total amount disbursed to N10.2 million with 102 beneficiaries in total. The conference, which had 7,000 delegates, featured speakers with track records of success in their chosen endeavours including founder and CEO of Made Men Music Group (Triple MG), Ubi Franklin, and respected public speaker and Best Twitter Personality Of The Year in the 2016 annual African Bloggers Awards JJ Omojuwa. Other speakers at the summit include DJ Cuppy, ‎Shola Akinlade, Co-founder and CEO Paystack, Tolu ‘Toolz’ Oniru-Adeniran, Deputy Programme Director and OAP at Beat FM, Biola Kazeem, sports broadcaster, and Olashile Abayomi, founder of Soup-a-Market. With the support grant, Otunba Alabi has further cemented his status as one of the Nigeria’s most generous business leaders. In addition to supporting young entrepreneurs with business grants, Otunba Alabi has built and donated classrooms to schools, sunk bore hole in communities with water scarcity and financial empowered indigent widows and traders. In recognition of his leadership skills and philanthropic works, he was appointed the Mogaji (Head) of Ajiwogbo compound in Ibadan by the Olubadan of Ibadan, HRM Oba Saliu Adetunji and was also honoured with the chieftaincy title of Otunba Atunlushe of Igbole Ekiti by the Olugbole of Igbole Ekiti, HRM Oba Emmanuel O. Ajayi Adetiloye II.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .