  CAN urged Nigerians to fight and defend themselves when attacked by the rampaging herdsmen and asked the international community to observe that Nigeria is on a free fall. Briefing newsmen in Abuja, General Secretary of CAN, Rev. Musa Asake, lamented that lawlessness and impunity are reigning supreme in Nigeria, while the country is fast heading towards chaos and anomie.  Asake alleged that the Dark Age that seems to have come with the current administration was giving the Christian community in this country a huge concern and making the leaders to shudder and ask where lies the interest of the President, really? Read More: Troops repel Boko Haram attack in Maiduguri  “The sad angle to it is that the President is not giving majority of Nigerians an impression of being deeply touched by the turn of events. He has been acting complacent and indeed unmoved by the reign of terror that his administration has permitted since the past three years of being the President. “Most painfully, the President seems to depend on his media aides to make responses, which oftentimes had no bite on widespread bloodletting across the federation, especially in the Middle Belt part of the country.” The CAN scribe observed that the President, who was popularly elected in 2015, has not seen the need and urgency to issue a presidential order to halt the killings and with stern instruction to heads of security operatives to bring perpetrators to book, adding that criminals have been operating with impunity, leaving a strong impression that the security architecture in Nigeria has collapsed and the entire security system compromised. He also condemned the violation of the Federal Character Principle in appointments in security and education by the administration. Asake enjoined every Nigerian of voting age to get registered and obtain the Permanent Voters Card (PVC) in readiness for next year’s general elections. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .