President Muhammadu Buhari (middle) and members of Arewa Pastors Non-Denominational Initiative for Peace in Abuja…recently. PHOTO: PHILLIP OJISUA • Fayose urges all to prepare for time of plenty under party in 2019
• SDP denies endorsing any consensus candidate for Ekiti gov polls The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described what it called “the recent stage-managed political endorsement of President Muhammadu Buhari by some northern religious leaders” as hypocritical and disgusting signs of desperation. In a statement issued yesterday by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party said: “The Buhari Presidency’s hiring of supposed Arewa pastors was another attempt to orchestrate fake endorsements ahead of the 2019 elections. “The procured endorsement, which had turned out to be fake, is despicable and betrayed the nervousness of a sinking leadership, desperately trying to save its face, having been rejected by the people. “The fact that this disgraceful drama came barely a week after our nation suffered an international show of shame over President Buhari’s presentation with a procured award fraudulently linked to Martin Luther King (Jnr.), speaks volumes of this administration’s proclivity for falsehood, lies and deception.” The party further noted that “having failed to gain any endorsement from reputable international figures, the APC and the Presidency have now shamelessly resorted to cheaper ways and means, particularly along the unregulated and porous religious and sectional lines.” The PDP said that “if President Buhari and his dysfunctional APC had performed to the least expectations of Nigerians, even by implementing a little of their numerous fake campaign promises, they would have no need for mundane gimmicks of procuring awards from well-known street quacks ahead of the elections.” However, Ekiti State Governor Ayodele Fayose has called on Nigerians to prepare for a time of plenty under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He lamented that though the country is blessed with abundant resources, people are suffering and hunger was prevalent in the land under the present federal administration. Fayose, who spoke during the party’s North-West zone rally at the weekend in Katsina State, however, said the PDP had rebranded itself and is ready to take over power come next general elections. “I will not be afraid to speak to those in power. Nigerians are poorer than before under President Muhammadu Buhari. Nigerians should prepare for a time of plenty with the PDP. “When you are in a rich man’s house and he doesn’t give you food, the best thing to do is to leave and find food elsewhere.” The PDP’s National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, who also spoke at the event, said the party was ready to rule at both federal and state levels with a view to addressing socio-economic challenges brought about by the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the country. Secondus expressed confidence that his party would defeat the APC come 2019 polls, and that the party was prepared to ensure the desired change to effect an accountable leadership in the polity. In another development, the national leadership of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) has distanced itself from a report that the party has picked a consensus candidate for Ekiti State governorship election slated for July 14, saying that nothing like that had happened. The pioneer chairman of the party in the state, Mr. Ayo Adekola, had while justifying the alleged decision, said it was in order to ward off internal crisis in the SDP in Ekiti State that the leadership of the party adopted former Deputy Governor, Mr. Bisi Omoyeni, as the consensus candidate of the party for the July 14, 2018 governorship election. But the National Publicity Secretary of SDP, Mr. Yemi Akinbode, while reacting to the report at the weekend, said that the party would never act with impunity or join the gang of political parties whose cabals impose candidates. Akinbode, who stated that the relevant organ of the party is presently preparing guidelines for party’s primaries nationwide, said all bonafide members of the SDP would have equal right and privileges. He said: “The attention of the SDP leadership has been drawn to a media report mischievously claiming that a “consensus candidate” has been chosen by the SDP. For the avoidance of doubt, nothing of such happened. We are genuine democrats committed to the rule of law, rules and regulations, due process and the will of the people.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .