 Head, Meadow Hall Foundation, Mrs. Kemi Adewoye (left); Former Vice Chancellor, University of Lagos, Prof. Oyewusi Ibidapo-Obe; Founder/CEO, Meadow Hall Group, Mrs. Kehinde Nwani; and Founder/CEO, People Prime Ltd, Mrs. Nike Akerele De Souza at Meadow Hall Foundation’s Education Convention held recently at Landmark Event Centre in Lagos.  Speaking at an Education Convention and Inspirational Educator Awards (INSEA) organised by Meadow Hall Foundation in Lagos Prof Obe, who is the guest speaker noted that there has to be a general quality in the standard of the nation’s education sector. He particularly expressed dissatisfaction on the quota system currently in place where cut-off marks for university admission differ based on geo-political zones or tribe adding that everything ‘we do as a nation must be merit-based. He also stressed the need for teachers capacity development at all times. With the theme “Addressing the quality question in the education sector”, Nwani said the 21st century professional is not one that has spent many years in any given profession, but one who is open to learning and constantly developing himself. According to her, quality education is indispensable for the holistic development of children and national transformation.Specifically, Durotoye while reminding on the importance of the sector said it must be taken seriously by all concerned.He envisaged a country where emphasis is placed on education and mental development, which will in turn drive other aspects of development. Some inspirational teachers were also rewarded across the country.  Cash prizes were presented to four winners: Olufemi Folaponmile of Aduvie International School, Abuja, was rewarded with N2, 000,00 as the Inspirational School Leader of the year; Chioma Akin-Adekeye of Preserved Generation Schools, Amuwo Odofin, Lagos received N500, 000 as the runner-up of the Inspirational School Leader of the year; Kikelomo Usilo of Ifesowapo/Aboru Senior Secondary School and Olalekan Ademola Adeeko of Baptist Boys’ High School, Abeokuta, received N750, 000 each as Inspirational Teacher of the year. Mrs. Kemi Adewoye, head of Meadow Hall Foundation, explained that the Foundation pays attention to teachers’ training, development and rewards because it believes that students are mostly influenced by their teachers.
“Hence, a happy, well-trained and inspired teacher would go a long way in affecting the lives of the students in their care.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .