 Nigeria’s minister of Information Lai Mohammed  AFP PHOTO / PIUS UTOMI EKPEI  Besides, it said the need to unmask the perpetrators would be a major assignment that would be dutifully discharged to prevent a recurrence whether in Offa or any part of Nigeria. Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, gave the assurance yesterday during a condolence visit to the Kwara State Governor, Alhaji Abdulfatah Ahmed, at the Government House in Ilorin. He said the entire nation was ‘’shocked and grieved’ by the dastardly acts committed in Offa during which 17 persons, including nine policemen, were killed. The minister later visited Offa to commiserate with Olofa of Offa, Oba Muftau Gbadamosi, Esuwoye II, the people of the town over the unfortunate incident and also visited the headquarters of the state police command in Ilorin to commiserate with the police commissioner, Lawan Ado, over the loss of nine policemen to the dastard bank robbery. He was also at the University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital (UITH) where he sympathised with the victims of the armed robbery attack who were on admission there. The minister, however, said the state and entire public must learn from “the mistakes” of the incident with a view to improving on security architecture of the entire country. “I want to take this opportunity to also let you know that the entire country is grieving and the entire country is sympathising with Kwara State and the entire people of Offa. “But there is also a silver light, despite the losses of the police, it is quite heart-warming to know that some of the suspects have been arrested. ‘’I spoke yesterday with the IG and he assured me that all the people responsible for the dastardly act would be arrested and brought to justice,” he said. Read More: Offa robbery: Governor Ahmed offers N5m for information on attackers Ahmed, who thanked the “presidency for its intervention so far,” particularly expressed delight with the promise made by Inspector-General of Police to deploy an Armoured Personnel Carrier (APC) that will be stationed specifically in Offa to prevent future occurrence of the incident. He described the level of the crime as “unexpected”, a situation which he said, was an indication that the country is in a “challenging situation.” Also, Oba Esuwoye thanked the minister for the visit and solidarity with the people of the town. He asked the minister to use his good office in ensuring the deployment of two Armoured Personnel Carriers (APCs) to Kwara South axis to beef up security in the area. The monarch also called for the establishment of a squadron Mobile Police Unit in the town to complement the efforts of the regular police in tackling crime and criminality in Offa town. He lamented that the town had been attacked four times by armed robbers in the past 10 years. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .