 Executive Director, Nigerian Heart Foundation (NHF), Dr. Kingsley Akinroye; Marketing Manager, FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria Plc, Maureen Ifada; Managing Director, FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria Plc, Ben Langat; Past President, Nigerian Heart Foundation (NHF), Prof. Oladipo Akinkugbe (CFR) and Corporate Affairs Director, FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria Plc, Ore Famurewa, during the Endorsement of Three Crowns Milk with Nigerian Heart Foundation (NHF) Heart Check Logo, Lagos, recently  Non-communicable diseases (NCDs) are the leading cause of death globally and they are on the rise both in low and middle-income countries. These diseases include, heart disease, stroke, cancer, diabetes and chronic respiratory disease. Health practitioners say they account for more than two-thirds of global deaths, at least half of which are caused by common, modifiable risk factors such as unhealthy diet, obesity, tobacco use and lack of physical activity. Currently, there are 16 million premature deaths each year resulting from NCD; and this is projected to worsen. In 1999, NCDs were estimated to have contributed to just under 60 per cent of worldwide deaths and around 43 per cent of the global burden of disease. Based on current trends forecast by the World Health Organization (WHO), these diseases are predicted to account for 73 per cent of deaths and 60 per cent of the disease burden by the year 2020. Experts have pointed out that this upward trend in the world over is an observed change in diet – a transition from traditional foods, to what has come to be known as the ‘western’ diet, i.e. more energy-dense, processed foods, more foods of animal origin, and more added sugar, salt and fat. According to global projections, the biggest increase in NCD deaths will occur in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs); currently 80 per cent of global NCD deaths occur in these regions.The United Nations (UN) recently recognised NCDs as an increasing threat and a major contributor to preventable disease and premature mortality. This has been a monumental step in placing NCDs on the global health and development agenda. In September 2011, a UN High-Level Meeting of Heads of State and Governments on the Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases classified NCDs not just as a health concern, but also as a major development issue. To this end, participants adopted a political declaration to increase global focus and attention to prevent and control NCDs, especially in LMICs. In different researches conducted across the globe, the rapidly changing food environment with escalating chronic disease were tied to population-level dietary change over individual factors such as, knowledge, attitudes and behaviours. They note that environmental and/or policy interventions can be some of the most effective strategies for creating healthier food environments.  In fact, they conclude that to improve dietary patterns and reduce chronic diseases will require a sustained public health effort that addresses environmental factors and the conditions in which people live and make choices. According to public health experts, to improve dietary patterns and reduce chronic diseases, a sustained effort that includes consideration of environmental factors and the conditions in which people live and make choices are essential. To this end, corporate organisations and health friendly institutions, such as FrieslandCampina WAMCO, are making critical initiatives to combat the current trend and achieve a real reduction in the NCD-related burden.In response to the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) call for private, public and multi-sectoral collaboration in tackling Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs), Nigeria Heart Foundation, Three Crowns milk recently announced its partnership with the Nigerian Heart Foundation (NHF) to promote healthy eating habits and active lifestyle. The foundation’s logo now endorses Three Crowns milk offering of heart friendly, complete nourishment. Unveiling the partnership in Lagos, the Managing Director, FrieslandCampina WAMCO, Mr. Ben Langat, said, “Three Crowns milk considers it a great privilege to partner with the Nigerian Heart Foundation in promoting healthy options for consumers.  We understand the important role food plays in reducing the risk of Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) including cardiovascular diseases. It is because of the close link between diet and health that our company and the Nigerian Heart Foundation, have come together today to endorse Three Crowns as the heart friendly milk brand. “As the brand marks its 30th anniversary of delivering complete nourishment to Nigerians, the brand in partnership with the Nigerian Heart Foundation will promote, encourage and empower Nigerians to live healthy lives. This is significant because Three Crowns milk is the first dairy brand to be endorsed with the Nigerian Heart Foundation ‘Heart Check’ logo” Langat said. Launched into the Nigerian market as evaporated milk in 1988, in 2015, it extended into milk powder category to cater for a wider consumer preference. It is low in cholesterol and contains 28 vitamins and minerals needed for daily nutrition. Langat said, the brand has an ongoing digital campaign tagged ‘work out with whatever’, which supports consumers to develop a daily exercise routine. In addition, the brand has created a direct coaching platform where consumers are given a tailor made exercise routine based on their work out challenges. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .