Easter is one holiday that we all look forward to, but it usually goes by without us maximising it. Why not plan a weekend getaway for your family this year and create unforgettable memories together? Nigeria has a lot of beautiful resorts that are ideal for families. These are four amazing resorts you should be looking towards when planning your Easter holiday this year: Processed with VSCOcam with hb1 preset This stunning resort is located in Cross River State. It is a great place to spend the Easter holiday with your family and get away from the stress of living in the city. The weather is amazing, making it a good place to relax. There are tons of activities like the canopy walk, cable car rides, horse riding, water slides, bonfires and mountain climbing. You can see Cameroon from the mountains and take beautiful pictures in the clouds. It is best to get the mountain villa when with family. Take a day trip to Agbokim waterfalls which is about three hours away from Obudu Mountain. IITA. Photo_ Biodun Luque IITA, which is located in Ibadan, is as educative as it is relaxing. It has a forest reserve and scientific research centre in Ibadan. The natural beauty provides accommodation, recreational facilities, golf courses, tennis courts, a fishing lake and more. If you live in Lagos, this will be the perfect road trip for the holiday season. Abraka Turf and Club. Photo_ P. Preye This beautiful luxury resort with chalets and villas is in Delta state. There are a lot of fun activities to ensure that you have a perfect stay like kayaking, canoeing, golf, Polo, tennis and horse riding. The resort is a natural beauty and one fascinating thing about it is the River Ethiope that cascades through it. You can take a dive in the gorgeous water on a nice, sunny day. The Polo tournament takes place during Easter and this will make your visit an even more memorable one. La Campagne Tropicana. Photo_ 365 Travel Plan This is an African-themed beach resort which lies on the outskirts of Lagos. Sip on coconut water, kayak at the beautiful lake and relax by the beach. The crew at La Campagne will ensure that your stay is unforgettable and will provide team bonding activities for you and your family. Experience cultural dances and activities like swimming, beach volleyball and hunting.