 ROZE  The budding music stars, who were introduced to the Nigerian music industry and the media in January made good their promise of claiming their space in the music industry with their unique brand of music. The video, which was shot and directed by ace music videographer, Clarence Peters, was released on YouTube on Monday, April 23, and has been enjoying rave reviews and views for its creativity, audio-visual quality and dope delivery. The love song is a blend of romantic lyrics delivered with eclectic sound, feel-good rhythm and dancehall influence. Born Houston, Texas, January 11, 1998 and July 30, 1999, to Nigerian-American parents and member of the House of Representatives, Hon. E.J Agbonayinma, the duo followed the Nigerian music industry while in Nigeria for their primary and secondary school education. In their high school, Immaculate Conception College (ICC), both brothers were known for their musical talent. Zuwa was known in his set to be one of the best rappers, while Row was known to be one of the best vocalists. Having completed their secondary education, they moved back to the United States, where they are now studying Petroleum Engineering and Architecture respectively at the University of Houston and Houston Community College in Texas. Ever since their childhood, both brothers have had a passion for music and affinity with several genres such as Hip-Hop, R&B, Reggae, and Country among others. They always mention how they do not restrict themselves from various genres of music. Growing up, they fiddle around making beats and writing songs, until their father, who was surprised to know how talented they were, noticed it. Their father in a bid to help them nurture their talent would go as far as taking them to recording studios to record the songs they had written. Their mother, elated by their talent, love and passion for music, would play their songs joyfully always. At their unveiling and introduction to the Nigerian media in January this year, at the Signature of Eko Hotel & Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos, the dashing teenagers explained how they intend to break into the competitive Nigerian music industry given their American influence. In a simple reply, Row said, “We do pretty good music never seen before, and we have great musical stuff we’re bringing on board. When you have great stuff you aren’t scared to launch out in an industry that is complicated or crazy.” Signed to U & I Music, an entertainment platform owned by their father, the brothers have indeed hoisted a flag on the dome of the music industry with this banging entrant single and a video that is so stimulating and entertaining. The group recorded their first song in 2014, while working on a test project titled Time to Party, which was never released. But in 2016, they recorded another song, which was being introduced to producer, Mekoyo, who has produced for several artistes including Style Plus. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .