  Speaking during the official launch and inauguration of Rebuild Nigeria Initiative Forum (RNI), one of the support groups for Atiku, the International Coordinator, Mrs. Kemi Adesanya-Eboda said it is imperative the women rise in support of Atiku because of the persistent socio-economic challenges, which Nigeria is going through. According to her, “The poverty level in the country is currently at alarming rate and unfortunately, women and youths are the major victims. In any society where women and the youths are cowed, as a result of poverty, the possibility for the country to develop or realise its potentials is remote.” Although, Adesanya-Eboda said it is time for Nigeria to give women enough space in the political leadership and authority like in other advanced nations that are progressing “there is the need for us to rally around Atiku in the next general election because he has promised to give youths and women space to excel if elected.” She also described the former vice president as a successful businessman, who does not have aura of poverty but a focused and determined politician whose influence and interactions cuts across the six-geo-political zones. Read More: ‘Atiku’s presidency will transform Nigeria’ RNI is a one of the over 240 support groups for Atiku in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). She also flayed the high rate of unemployment in the country, saying that Nigeria needs someone like Atiku to reposition it. Speaking in similar vein, National President of the forum, Asiwaju Frank Sheteolu Gomez said the former vice president is the only politician with the wherewithal and political sagacity to withstand the incumbent president in the coming election. While he noted that peace and unity is gradually eluding Nigeria, Gomez affirmed that Atiku’s presidency would foster peace and hope for the common Nigeria. Alhaji Ajagbe Adejumo, a top PDP stalwart in Lagos who represented Atiku, said the former vice president is a bridge builder and a man that has all it takes to move Nigeria to the next level. The Deputy National President of the group, Otunba Wale Fasan and the General Secretary Mr. Christian Aburme both agreed that Nigerians have suffered great economic hardship under this current dispensation of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) led by President Muhammadu Buhari. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .