Lagos City Marathon. RevolutionPlus Property Development Company yesterday became the latest heavyweight corporate organisation to pitch its tent with the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon for which it has agreed a five-year sponsorship deal worth N500 million. The deal will see the outfit, a real estate company, spend the sum of N100 million annually for the period of five years. The agreement confers on RevolutionPlus the position of title sponsor of the race, while Access Bank remains the headline sponsor. Speaking at a ceremony held in the company’s head office in Ikeja, Lagos, yesterday, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Bamidele Onalaja said RevolutionPlus decided to join the marathon train as part of its social corporate responsibility to Nigerians, adding that the partnership would afford his company the opportunity to showcase its brand. “We spend so much money on radio and television advertisement on daily basis trying to showcase what we stand for as a property development company, but we see the marathon as a bigger avenue to achieve better results. One may not be able to see the profits immediately, but we believe it is a deal that is worth entering into. Read More: Okpekpe organisers name STACO as official insurer “I have been following the Lagos City Marathon since its inception because I am a sports lover, especially athletics and football. The phenomenal growth of Access Bank Lagos City Marathon within a short period is one of the reasons we decided to partner with them. To have your course certified by AIMS, get an IAAF Bronze Label and have over a 100,000 starters at the third edition of the marathon, including many foreign and local elites, is not a small feat. Only a few marathon races in the world have this. Access Bank Lagos City Marathon is a global brand and we want to identify with it.” The initial plan was for us to come in as a community sponsor, but my wife attended the last edition and she recommended that we should go full length because of what we stand to benefit at the end of the day,” Onalaja stated. Project Consultant for the Lagos Marathon, Bukola Olopade was excited over the five-year deal with RevolutionPlus. “We at Access Bank Lagos City Marathon are delighted to welcome RevolutionPlus into the Marathon family. The company shares our vision and goal, which is to be a global leader in marathon and road races,” he enthused.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .