Orji Uzor Kalu Chief Orji Kalu, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has said that there is no division in the leadership of the party. Kalu, a former governor of Abia, made this known during his advocacy visit to the palace of Deji of Akure, on Saturday.
He noted that all arms of the party had agreed to work together. “The National Executive Committee of the party only asked Odigie Oyegun, the APC National Chairman, to act since elections are approaching. “Oyegun himself never asked for tenure elongation and that is the truth. “But President Muhammadu Buhari said everything must be done according to constitution of the party,” he said.
According to him, the party will hold its congress and every member of the party has right to contest. Kalu, however, applauded the president’s giant stride to tackle insecurity in the country, saying the president had done well. “I score President Buhari 89 per cent on security because Boko Haram almost took Abuja before he came to power and some of the equipment meant to tackle insecurity is being purchased now. “Gradually, we are getting there,” he said. He cautioned Nigerians, especially those at helms of affairs to guard their utterances that could endanger the peace of the country. “It is unfortunate that some utterances emanating from some leaders are not well guarded. “If we know what happened to Rwanda, people will not be making such mistake but preach peace. “There is no good Miyetthi Allah that will kill his fellow Nigerians. We have been living with northerners for long without problem,” he said. He added that the pockets of problems experienced in the country were being perpetrated by infiltrators from other neighbouring countries. The APC chieftain told the traditional ruler that his mission to his palace was to solicit his continued support for Buhari’s re-election bid. “Continue your purposeful leadership and support for President Buhari’s re-election bid because he is going to run except the Lord says no. “He will run the forthcoming election because there is no alternative and I believe he will bring a lot of stimulus into the economy to make sure that Nigerians enjoy. “Please preach peace advocacy within your area because I know traditional rulers are closer to the people. “The president may have made mistakes but we are on ground to correct him and I know he has delivered in terms of service delivery what no past president had done,” Kalu said. According to him, this is a very difficult time for Nigerians, adding that people making inflammatory comments are compounding our problems. “It is right for people that want democracy to thrive to support the president because no man is perfect. “It is not good making inflammatory statements that can divide the country and it is not the best. “I felt I should go round and tell traditional rulers to continue to support him,” he said. Responding, Oba Aladelusi Aladetoyinbo, the Deji of Akure, said that though people’s expectation on the president was cut short, but urged that the president should be given another chance. The traditional ruler also urged the Buhari-led Federal Government to remember its promise to appoint Akure indigene into his cabinet to reciprocate the town’s support for him. “Akure is the largest local government area in Nigeria, which has been sidelined. “The last time we had representative in Federal Government cabinet was about 40 years ago,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .