Otunba Henry Ajomale • State’s legislators back Gbajabiamila
•Coalition wants Ajomale to step aside Ahead of next year National Assembly elections, some faithful of the Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have urged the party’s leaders to ensure reelection of lawmakers who are discharging their legislative duties in the best interest of the nation, the state and the incumbent governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode. The party’s faithful mainly from the Lagos central and east senatorial districts specifically commended the role currently played by Senators Remi Tinubu and Gbenga Ashafa respectively, saying the Lagos leaders should not allow the intrigues ongoing at the federal level sweep away its best in the next general elections. Last week, youths from Bariga Local Council Development Area (LCDA) stood in support of Ashafa, saying the lawmaker’s contribution to their welfare and the needs of the area prompted their action to endorse him for another term. Speaking on behalf of the youths, the Chairman, Mr. Akintunde Taiwo Olamilekan said the synergy with which the current Lagos representatives at the federal level are working with Governor Ambode has been of tremendous help to Lagos, saying we want this to continue beyond 2019. The Bariga youth endorsement of Ashafa was sequence to the earlier endorsement of the legislator by apex leaders of Lagos East under the leadership of the chairman, Otunba Bushura Alebiosu. In a communiqué signed by the Secretary of the district, Mr. Jokotola Pelumi, former Speaker Lagos State House of Assembly, the zone considered the performance of their current elected officers at the National Assembly after careful scrutiny said, “It is imperative of the party to endorse the lawmaker for another term next year.” While restating their support for Ambode’s reelection in 2019 and President Muhammadu Buhari at the centre, the zone expressed optimism that Lagos would thrive better under the current government. Meanwhile, Lagos East Youths for Good Governance will also endorse Ashafa for reelection in Ikorodu today. The event is would be attended by all artisans and women who have benefitted under the lawmaker’s empowerment programme over the years. State and federal lawmakers in Surulere Lagos Central have also endorsed the Majority Leader, House of Representatives, Mr. Femi Gbajabiamila for reelection in 2019. Gbajabiamila, who represents Surulere Federal Constituency 1, has been facing challenges of reelection as some elements in the area are vigorously canvassing the party leaders to drop him from returning to the House for the fifth time. Speaking with The Guardian on why the lawmakers came together to support any person representing a different constituency, the lawmaker representing Kosofe Federal Constituency Prince Rotimi Agunsoye, said, “Coming to this endorsement programme is a preparation towards the 2019 election and to support our leader Femi Gbajabiamila. Gbajabiamila is a man with great ability, great courage; the man that when he stands to speak at the national assemble, others listing. “The success of Gbajabiamila in 2019 elections is also the success of the APC and the president. Honourable Gbajabiamila is well accepted by his people and by extension, the vote will go to the president, the governor and other people as well because when you pick such a man that is acceptable to the people then, whatever he says people will follow because he’s a leader that sees before other people. With the wealth of experience, he’s not a man we can discard just like that; he’s still very young and amiable and has so many things in stock for the people and this great country. “I represent Kosofe Federal constituency and I will be going back to represent my people in 2019. On the nation current crisis, Agunsoye said, “When you are talking about miracle, there must be a serious problem on ground, we’ll pray to God to perform his miracle. The problem we are experiencing now in Nigeria were not created by the present government; I will just tell the people to take it easy that this government will be three years in office on the 29th of May 2018, compare to 16-year of PDP government so, if in three years, we are able to do certain things, by the time we spend 16 years, Nigeria will be on a right track. On his part, the lawmaker representing Apapa Federal Constituency Ayo Joseph said lawmaking was about experience, passion and service.
He said that Gbajabiamila’s wealth of experience, as a member of the House was a great asset not only to the National Assembly but also to the nation.
The former Apapa Local Government Chairman urged residents of Surulere to speak with one voice and support the House Leader for another term to “continue the good work he has been doing”. Representative of Lagos State House of Assembly, Surulere Constituency, Desmond Eliot who also doubled at the chief host, said, “we are here to support of leader, beloved son and brother in Surulere. “Gbajabiamila is a son of Surulere that we have given to Nigeria, and we know the kind of work he’s doing over there; he’s the true representation of the kind of leader and son we need and he’s representing us and the south west region very well so, personally I’m supporting him because he’s been there for me, he supported me, nurture me like a father. “Going into 2019 election, I advice everybody to hold their PVC, that is the only way you can make your case, it’s not by shouting; get your PVC, wherever you want to vote, stay there, make sure you follow the whole process and ensure that what happens is the true reflection of what takes place at the polling station so, if you don’t vote, you have no reason to complain or hold anyone responsible. An APC stalwart, Engineer Abiodun Akanni Adeseye said, “I am so sorry for anybody that want to contest against Femi in Surulere, because this mandate is not for sale; in this dispensation, we were rob of it because we were ill-prepared at the national assemble, but come 2019, we know exactly what to do. We have done our homework and we are going to clinch it, no matter how anybody sponsoring any candidate in Surulere can have any impact here. We have even warned our boys that ‘Any Dogara sponsoring you, take the money, pocket it and go away peacefully otherwise, you will be cursed’. I was a former board member of the Nigeria Television Authority (NTA) with Ben Bruce as my DG and I know all the politics over there, and I mean it when I said we have corrected our mistakes. We know that we are due for the Speakership. It’s our right But The Guardian, from findings however discovered that the series of endorsements across the state is part of the political war of supremacy between some political godfathers in Abuja and the National Leader of APC, Bola Tinubu. According to source, “The game plan is to decimate Tinubu power by ensuring that his loyalists are not reelected next year.” A Coalition of Lagos Progressives in APC is also demanding for zoning of State’s chairman. The group is urging the party to allow the chairmanship of Lagos to rotate to other senatorial zone, since the incumbent, Otunba Henry Ajomale who has been the state’s chairman for more than four terms is from Lagos West. In a statement yesterday, leader of the group, Mr. Taoridi Jinadu Akapo, said, “Lagos is a state of extraordinary diversity and as such, one of extraordinary complexities. These complexities are a reflection of the avalanche of ethno-cultural and socio-political groups co-habiting the territory and the intricacies of interaction among them. The group said Ajomale should step aside after14 years as chairman of the Action Congress (AC), the Action Congress of Nigeria (ANC) and the APC, saying there is need for change in the system not only in the interest of fair play, but in order to inject new blood in the system.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .