 SIFAX Group Chairman, Taiwo Afolabi  The Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), which announced the result of the concession process yesterday, said Ocean and Cargo offered the sum of $25,510,000.64 to emerge the preferred concessionaire after its rival-Ecomarine Consortium- was disqualified for improper submission of its bidding documents. The concession is for a period of 25 years. The statement signed by the Head, Public Communications, BPE, Amina Tukur Othman, said: “Ecomarine had scored 87.84 per cent and Ocean and Cargo Terminal Services Limited, 82.70 per cent in the evaluation of the technical proposals of the prospective bidders. “Consequently, Ecomarine’s bid price was not announced. However, Ocean and Cargo Terminal Services Limited emergence is subject to the approval of the National Council on Privatisation (NCP),” he stated. The financial bid was chaired by Chairman of the Technical Committee of the National Council on Privatisation (NCP), Alhaji M. K Ahmed, and was attended by many stakeholders, including the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), which was represented by its Executive Director, Marine Operations, Dr. Sokonte Davies, who stood in for the Managing Director, Ms. Hadiza Bala Usman. Director General of the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), Alex Okoh, noted that modest achievements have been recorded at the ports since the port concession programme commenced in 2005, hence the government’s determination to concession the Terminal ‘B’ Warri Old Port. Okoh, who was represented by the Director, Transport Department, Mallam Aliyu Maigari, said the objectives of the port concession are to increase the efficiency of ports operations; reduce cost of doing business for ports users; reduce dependence on the treasury for support to an otherwise economically viable ports sector; and boost economic activity, increase the GDP and accelerate development to make the Nigerian ports the hub of international freights in west and Central Africa. He apologised to the bidders for the unduly and unintended long process it took to get to the stage of the financial bid opening and noted that the terminal has a new quay wall, fenders and apron with a backup space where the concessionaire will develop other infrastructural facilities for efficient port operations. The Expression of Interest for the port was advertised in 2014. At the deadline of the submission, of the EOIs, 13 applications were received. Out of the 13 applications, seven were pre-qualified. Out of these pre-qualified bidders, five were able to submit their technical and financial proposals on January 31, 2017, the deadline for submission of the proposals. These five companies are: Marine Infrastructure Consortium, Bright Ocean Integrated Services Limited, Ecomarine Consortium, Ocean and Cargo Terminal Services Limited and Neon Warri Ports Consortium. At the end of the evaluation of the technical proposal, Ecomarine Consortium and Ocean and Cargo Terminal Services Limited’s financial bids were qualified for the financial bid opening stage. Group Executive Vice Chairman, SIFAX Group, Dr. Taiwo Afolabi, expressed his appreciation to both the BPE and NCP for the transparent exercise, adding that the concession will enjoy the same midas touch that has now become the hallmark of SIFAX Group’s businesses. Group Managing Director, SIFAX Group, John Jenkins, said: “BPE, NPA and other relevant government agencies should look forward to an efficient port management system when we formally take over the control of the terminal while the clients are in for an unparalleled customer-focused service delivery that will put them at the heart of our operations.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .