PEFTI Film Institute troupe during their performance at the press conference Begins With A Week-Long Educational Imaging Programme
Committed to grow the Nigerian film and photography industry with good skills and techniques, Canon Central and North Africa (CCNA) and PEFTI Film Institute have signed a three-year strategic partnership agreement. The agreement, has already commenced with are a week-long educational programme for film students and industry practitioners at PEFTI Film Institute in Ajao Estate, Isolo, Lagos is led by a team of Canon ambassadors and technical experts. The training programme, which commenced on Sunday, April 15 will run through to April 20, with focus on a series of photography and film workshops as well as specialised seminars, which will provide the perfect opportunity for aspiring image makers to benefit from short courses in videography and photography. Speaking at a press conference in Lagos, Managing Director, PEFTI Film Institute, Abiola Adenuga, said the overall objective of the partnership and workshops is to strengthen the knowledge, capacity and skills of Nigeria’s creative and professional talents in film and photography, and create rewarding career opportunities for them locally and abroad. She said, “Canon-PEFTI Partnership widens the scope and reach of camera training in Nigeria, thus elevating the standard of visual arts in Nigeria, Africa, and the world. The week-long Canon and PEFTI Photo and Video program provides Practical Film and photography training, using Canon’s latest range of professional Cameras, to over 100 participants from: film schools, universities, technical colleges, cable television stations, film production companies, cinematography guilds, film forums, event management companies, and those from the freelance community.” “Through this partnership, Canon will support the skills and capacity development among creative and talented youth and professionals in Nigeria on film and photography through mentoring, technical training and other outreach activities. Canon will also provide equipment for practical production works throughout the collaboration, supporting students to find mentors and build a network of people aspiring to work in film, television and photography with professionals working in the field through its support to various events and exhibitions,” she added. On his part, Managing Director, Canon Central and North Africa, Roman Troedthandl said, “This week-long educational programme is our first collaboration as part our agreement with PEFTI Film Institute, and within the upcoming three-year period, we will be working together to build a sustainable and thriving imaging industry that will provide unparalleled opportunities for students as well as industry professionals.” “Photography and filmmaking is an incredible art form, and Canon is proud to support the training of the next generation of talent that will grow the film and photography sectors. PEFTI Film Institute is on a mission to promote a reputable imaging and film industry in Nigeria and Africa, and Canon is honoured to be part of the development of this industry,” he added. He noted that the partnership also marks an extension of Canon’s Miraisha Sustainability Programme, which is aimed at building the capacity and skills of people in the African countries in which it operates. “It also supports people to develop livelihoods in professional photography or print. Through the programme, Canon has trained more than 3,000 students on photography skills and over 20 printing businesses. The initiative has been inspired by ‘Kyosei’ the company’s corporate philosophy, which embodies the ideal of living and working together for the common good.
Troedthandl further explained that the additional equipment provided will be used for practical production work by PEFTI students to familiarise film makers and photographers in Nigeria with the cutting-edge professional technology used internationally, including Canon’s latest affordable technology in imaging and their capabilities. Photographer, videographer and Canon Ambassador, Simeon Quarrie, throughout the week, hosted series of mentorship workshops and seminars, including a Practical Production Workshop, which ran in parallel to other educational workshops. In addition, there were series of seminars that discussed Canon’s latest imaging products and technologies including: filmmaking with the EOS C100, EOS 6D Mark II, the M100 mirrorless camera, and Canon’s latest technology for extreme low light video. The Canon Cinema EOS C100 filmmaking workshop, and Canon Basic Video Filmmaking Workshop, were delivered by Paul Atkinson and Elisha Yaro respectively, both technical experts. The workshops ran a series of modules which cover: Intro to Filmmaking and Filmmaking Cameras, Shooting for Stills vs Shooting for Video, Grammar of Filmmaking, Controlling and Changing Screen Direction, External Elements, and a Practical Assessment. The final outputs to each workshop resulted in a series of short movies production. Furthermore, Canon conducted a two-day workshop focusing on Commercial Street Photography that includes a photography challenge in the streets of Lagos. The session will also include a Selphy printer demonstration on how easy and efficient it is to print anywhere, anytime, and even on the go. The best image taken was rewarded with a prize.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .