  Sources from the area told The Guardian that the affected communities are Tse-Abi, Tse-Ginde, Tse-Peviv, Tse-Ikyo, Agenke and Gbenke settlements, while an official of the local council also said over 10 corpses have been recovered with many others injured. The council official said the attack began about 9pm and lasted till six a.m. yesterday. “All of a sudden, we began to hear gun shots, then those who could, started running for their lives. Some of us ran fast to where Mobile police were stationed around the areas, but they could not do anything to protect us. I don’t blame them because the herdsmen were armed to the teeth,” he said. John Torsa, a resident, said: “Majority of the people had already gone to bed, because it was about to rain and everybody had run into his or her tents, then they struck.” Confirming the incident, the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Samuel Ortom, Terver Akase, said apart from the killing, the armed herdsmen also burnt numerous houses, shops and other property in the affected areas, even as he condemned the attack as mindless and unprovoked. Read More: Benue attack: Death toll rises to 67 Akase urged security agencies to do the needful, by arresting the herdsmen behind the killings for prosecution. However, as at the time of filing this report, the Benue State Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Moses Yamu, could not confirm the incident, and pleaded for more time. In another gory incidence, not less than six members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue State were allegedly killed and several others injured during the party’s Benue South Senatorial caucus meeting, held at Otukpo, Friday. It was gathered that during the meeting, fight broke out between supporters of the current state chairman of the party, Comrade Abbah Yaro, and  an incumbent  member of House of Representatives, representing Ado/ Okpokwu/ Ogbadibo federal Constituency, Hassan Saleh. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .