Chief Michael Ade-Ojo Toyota Nigeria Limited (TNL) has reaffirmed its commitment to its customers, stating that they remain an integral part of its operations. Besides, TNL also rewarded some customers and stakeholders, who had stood by the company over the years. To this end, the company named First Bank of Nigeria Limited, China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation and Access Bank Plc, as winners of its customers’ of the year award held in Lagos. The winners were rewarded for their high purchases and support of the Toyota brands, which has helped TNL, remained a leading automobile brand in Nigeria. Speaking at the ceremony, Managing Director, TNL, Kunle Ade-Ojo, said: “It has become a tradition for us at Toyota (Nigeria) Limited to celebrate our customers and our key stakeholders on annual basis. This is just a modest way of showing our appreciation to them for the tremendous support we have enjoyed, and still enjoying from them. The loyalty of our customers through thick and thin is an eloquent testimony of their love for the Toyota brand and of course for us as a company. “At Toyota (Nigeria) Limited, we cherish our relationship with our customers. This relationship has stood the test of time and has endured over the years. Our customers have demonstrated on several occasions that they are not only ardent lovers and patrons of the Toyota brand but passionate advocates as well. The least we could do therefore is to set aside a day like this to celebrate them and showcase our token of appreciation,” he said. Ade-Ojo commended efforts of the company’s directors and workers for their contributions to the success and survival of the firm “in the face of unprecedented harsh operating environment.” In his words: “I will like to recognise our other stakeholders who have remained our partners in progress over the years. Our dealers in particular have demonstrated passion, loyalty and the ‘know how’ for the promotion of the brand in Nigeria. They have also worked assiduously to deliver superior quality products and services in terms of safe, comfortable, and affordable automobile experience to our teeming customers in the country.” Also in his remarks, Chairman,TNL, Chief Michael Ade.Ojo, appreciated all the customers for their continued patronage and stressed the company remained indebted to them for the success of the brand in the country. He said: “I want to thank you for your resilience. I thank you because you provide us food. You have been our loyal customers; you’ve not disappoint us. And we shall continue to serve you better.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .