 Efe Omorogbe  The talent manager confirmed the arrest, saying: “Yes, I was arrested, but I have been granted bail and we will address the issues shortly after due consultations with my team.” Speaking on the crisis that led to his arrest, he said, “The matter is dead on arrival, as it is just tactics to fight people from demanding that people should do the right thing.” His arrest stems over a tussle of power concerning the chairmanship of the Copyright Society of Nigeria (COSON). It will be recalled that Omorogbe has been involved in a chairmanship tussle with founding chairman of COSON, Tony Okoroji. In the last quarter of 2017, Tony Okoroji was removed as chairman following allegations of high-handedness and gross abuse of office. On Thursday, December 7, 2017, a press statement was issued by notable industry names like COSON Director, Dare ‘Baba Dee’ Fasasi alongside Obi Asika announcing Efe Omorogbe, who is also founding member of the collective society as the new chairman of the body, bringing to an end Tony Okoroji’s seven-year reign. In a swift turn of events days later, the COSON General Assembly, this time under the leadership of Sir Victor Uwaifo, condemned the election that led to the emergence of Efe Omorogbe and reinstalled Tony Okoroji and his board, which is constituted with the likes of Azeezat Allen, Ras Kimono, Kenny Saint Best and Sir Shina Peters to continue running affairs of the body till the next Annual General Meeting of the society later this year. Upon a petition to the Police by Tony Okoroji, the police issued a warrant and carried out the arrest of Efe Omorogbe alongside Joel Ajayi, a COSON member on the grounds of forgery and impersonation. They were charged to the Igbosere Magistrate court, Lagos on a four count charge of forgery, fraud, falsification of documents with the intent to defraud and having conducted himself alongside others at large to commit breach of peace by storming the venue of the meeting of the reinstated COSON Chairman, which is an offence punishable under section 168 (d) of the Criminal Law of Lagos State of Nigeria 2015 but were later released.The case with file number A/29/2018 between Commissioner of Police vs Efe Omorogbe and Joel Ajayi has been adjourned till May 17.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .