Kingsley Moghalu • Faleke warns President against impending APC defeat in Kogi
• Says Melaye’s ‘failed’ recall, a pointer to party’s failure in 2019 Three presidential aspirants have spoken on why they want President Muhammadu Buhari’s job and how they plan to remove him from office in 2019. The three of them – Dr. Kingsley Moghalu, Mr. Omoyele Sowore and Dr. Datti Baba-Ahmed – spoke in the current edition of The Interview, in their most detailed interviews yet. Moghalu, a former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), said Nigerians would remember President Muhammadu Buhari “for his record of failed performance on his campaign promises on security, the economy and corruption.” He said his Presidency would reposition Nigeria for economic prosperity “by creating an enabling environment for a productive, innovation-led economy, with a better approach to taxation that will reduce dependence on oil revenues.” Sowore, the publisher of Sahara Reporters, said: “Buhari is done.” The publisher, who laid out a three-pronged policy covering security, power and infrastructure, which he said, would lift the country from its present state, promised to create at least 250,000 new jobs in the agricultural sector, with commercial ranching operations that would cover 20 million cows. Baba-Ahmed, the Pro-Chancellor of Baze University, Abuja, said: “Buhari’s second term will destroy Nigeria and unsettle the rest of Africa.” He promised that his government would stabilise the naira by tackling the current high risk factors, reduce interest rates and “flood the capital market with investible funds.” Datti Baba-Ahmed While Moghalu and Sowore have not yet announced their party platforms, Baba-Ahmed was a member of the House of Representatives and a senator on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Meanwhile, Managing Director (MD)/Editor-In-Chief of The Interview, Mr. Azu Ishiekwene, described the edition as “the most comprehensive window yet on aspirants who could be the biggest disruptors in the 2019 presidential race.” In another development, the deputy governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the November 2015 governorship election in Kogi State, Mr. James Abiodun Faleke, has urged Buhari to rethink before handing out his hope on Governor Yahaya Bello to deliver Kogi State for the party come 2019 presidential election. Faleke, who was reacting to the ‘failed’ verification exercise conducted at the weekend in Kogi West to recall Senator Dino Melaye, described the outcome as a pointer to what will happen in 2019. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .