Fans of Palace Regal and Ghanaian films will be open to choose whatever film they want starting Thursday 5th April. Rok Studios have made this possible with the launch of ROK 2 and ROK 3. This was spurned out of the growing demand for quality homegrown African content. Watch the trailer for ROK 2 here ROK 3 here The launch sees the likes of Bolanle Ninalowo, Kenneth Okolie, Eve Esin, Uche Ogbodo, Mary Lazarus, Queen Nwokoye, Jackie Appiah and Francis Duru returning to the ROK family, as the international Nollywood brand produces hundreds of hours of new and original content. Check out the new and exclusive trailer for the brand new channels here: ROK 2 & ROK 3 follow on from the success of the studio’s debut TV channel, ROK on DStv, that started broadcasting in November 2016. ROK, led by Nollywood actress and CEO, Mary Njoku, is one of Africa’s most prolific content studios, having produced 344 movies and 8 original TV series, since its launch in 2013, with smash hits such as Husbands of Lagos and Single Ladies. ROK2 – A 24hr movie and series channel, showcasing the origins of Nollywood; from tribal to the village and then on to big city life and launches with titles including King of Kings, The Heiress, Throne of Revenge and Mark of the Gods. ROK2 delivers the all-around awesome Nollywood experience and will be available on DStv Channel 169 Family Up Package, Pan Africa GOtv Channel 17 (all other countries) and GOtv MAX package, Channel 117 Ghana and Channel 317 Uganda. ROK 3 – A 24hr movie, series and music channel, showcasing a wide variety of talent from Ghana. Celebrating a mix of local language entertainment alongside modern urban delights and topped with the most talented musical artists of West Africa. The channel launches with titles including Black & White, West Africa. The channel launches with titles including Black & White, Stalemate, Banks Chronicles, Agya Fakye Me, Ama Pooley, Born Again, Coach Krakye and Ye Obi Dea Yie. ROK 3 will be available on Pan Africa DStv Channel 164 Access Up Package, Pan Africa GOtv Channel 18 (all other countries), GOtv MAX & Plus package Channel 118 in Ghana and Channel 318 in Uganda. Speaking on the launch, ROK CEO Mary Njoku says: “We are so excited to be extending the ROK platform across two new channels this week on DStv and GOtv. Today’s announcement is really a testament to our fans and their support for the type of storytelling we do here at ROK. We’ve had so much fun working in Ghana, to produce more original Ghanaian content for ROK 3, as well as making sure that our Tribal and Palace Regal fans have lots of new titles to enjoy, on ROK 2. As always, we keep our focus purely on ensuring amazing stories are told with passion and sincerity, by teams of super-talented African writers, actors, producers and directors. This approach to building the ROK brand has resonated with audiences across the continent, and we continue to strive to meet their needs and delight them with great content”. Multichoice CEO for General Entertainment, Yolisa Phahle says, “We remain committed to telling local stories in local languages. These channels are testament to our ongoing belief in the power of Africa’s creative industry. From today, our customers will enjoy additional quality local programming that will take their TV entertainment to new heights”. ROK, part of the IROKO group, is one of the leading movie producers and TV channels for Africa. ROK 2 & ROK 3 will launch on DStv Thursday 5 April 2018.