 Archbishop (Dr.)<br />Olanrewaju OBEMBE  He acknowledged the fact that to sell their newspapers, they must develop front-page captions that are negatively attractive to the people. People enjoy passing negative comments on issues that are even very positive. If you do well and score 99% in a subject, human beings will dwell more on the 1% that you did not do well. It is part of demonic activities to sentence people derogatively. Demons always employ blackmail, slander, mudslinging, etc. to attack the reputation of Saints. Of course, if you are a child of God, the devil has nothing good to say about you. And it is amazing how human beings have co-operated with demons to pass NEGATIVE SENTENCES and pronouncement on the innocent. Men of the occult believe in using negative words and incantation to attack great men and women’s destinies. Today, you must rise up and silence every negative word spoken against you. The word of the enemy in your life must not stand. It is shocking how the mother of Jabesh passed a curse and derogatory sentence on her son, the son she carried for nine months in her womb. Jabesh was expected to carry that negative appellation of sorrow and backwardness for life. Of course, most of the ladies would not want to be married to JABESH because they would not want to be addressed as MRS. JABESH. Jabesh prayerfully revolted against the negative sentence and appellation placed over his life by his unkind mother. His mother had said since he was born in sorrow, his name must portray sorrow and he must be addressed as the son of sorrow for life. In our recent research, we discovered that circumstances of life want to give you a name. Human beings want to give you their own opinionated name. Demons are working behind the scene to place a bad name on you, but God has a POWERFUL NAME for you daily. God’s mercy is new every morning, with a powerful positive name for you. The most important aspect of your appellation is what you call yourself. What people call you will not be as potent as what you call yourself. God has promised in His Word to make you a NEW BRAND with a VERY SPECIAL NAME. God declared that, you shall not be termed desolate, barren, backward, poor, a ripvanwrinkle. You will never be termed as a never-do-well or failure or disaster. In canceling the negative sentence, Jabesh asked for five powerful things and God did all: (1) Supernatural Blessings – (Bless me indeed). 1 Chronicles 4:10 “And Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, Oh that thou wouldest bless me indeed, and enlarge my coast, and that thine hand might be with me, and that thou wouldest keep me from evil, that it may not grieve me! And God granted him that which he requested”. (2) Supernatural Enlargement – (Enlarge thou my coast) (3) Supernatural Distinction – (Let your hand be with me) (4) Supernatural Protection – (Keep me from all evil) (5) Supernatural Preservation – (That it will not grieve me). God did two more: God CANCELED THE NEGATIVE SENTENCE that was operating in his life and made him MORE HONOURABLE than all the other members of his family. God turned him into a HIGHLY RESPECTED BRAND in his family and nation. We stand in the Mighty Name of JESUS to stand in agreement with you that every negative pronouncement over your life is destroyed. We cancel and annul every negative curse or words spoken over your life by the Power of the Blood of JESUS. We run you into the Blood of JESUS and wash you clean of every curse, enchantment, incantation, sorcery, divination and demonic sentences. The word of the enemy will no longer stand in your life. The blessing of the LORD is upon His people. Psalm 3:8 “Salvation belongeth unto the LORD: Thy Blessing is upon Thy people. Selah.” The Blessing of the LORD is upon your life. You become a complete New Brand from today in JESUS MIGHTY NAME. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .