Ten local miners were killed and scores injured at the weekend when armed bandits stormed Janruwa community in Birnin Gwari council area of Kaduna State. The Commissioner of Police, Austin Iwar, who confirmed the incident, noted that the attackers invaded a mining site within the locality around 12:45p.m. on Saturday and opened fire on the miners. It was not clear why the bandits stormed site but sources said they were on a revenge mission over the alleged killing of their gang members by vigilantes. A source in Birnin Gwari said: “My in-law, Magaji Danjuma, was among the miners killed. They were doing their mining business in the forest near old Birnin Gwari town when the bandits attacked them. “My in-law’s body was set ablaze by his killers while his remains were brought to Birnin Gwari town for burial.” An eyewitness disclosed:  “In a cruel and inhuman manner, the bandits burnt many of their victims beyond recognition while villagers in Janruwa community fled to other nearby places for safety.” It was also gathered several of the victims were taken to Jibril Maigwari General Hospital, Birnin-Gwari for treatment while the first set of casualties, seven in number, was deposited at the mortuary. The casualty figure could rise, according to security operatives and volunteers. The witness continued: “We are once again under siege and need an urgent intervention from both the state and the federal governments. The CP however assured the residents that the force t on top of the situation. Meanwhile, the Birnin-Gwari Vanguard for Security and Good Governance, in a statement, also confirmed the development. It reads in part: “Our investigations at Jibril Maigwari General Hospital at Birnin-Gwari revealed that the first set of casualties, seven dead bodies, is already deposited at the morgue, while those injured, numbering 13 people with gun shots, are receiving treatment right now, while three other people were on referral to Kaduna due to severity of the gun shots. “The casualty figure may rise as security men and volunteers are on their way to Janruwa village, close to old Birnin-Gwari, along the present Birnin-Gwari-Funtua road. “It is not clear what the mission of the armed bandits was but we learnt that they were on a revenge mission following the killing of their gang members by local vigilantes. “While Kaduna-Birnin-Gwari highway and adjoining villages are relatively quiet from the attacks of the armed bandits, Birnin-Gwari-Funtua road and the eastern part of the local government area witnessed attacks, abduction and incessant killings by armed bandits.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .