 Engr. Gbenga Adebayo, Chairman, Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators (ALTON)  Engr, Gbenga Adebayo, chairman, ALTON who disclosed this in Lagos, said that ALTON members have been inundated with incessant summons from different committees of the NASS served on their Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) to appear before several National Assembly (NASS) Committees, which negatively impact on ability to focus on their business operations. “The NASS’ insistence on attendance of CEOs at such session is without consideration of these CEOs reasonable schedule conflict or the fact that other senior management staff may be better versed and suited due to the nature of their job roles vis-a-vis the subject matter of investigation. “For instance, the Ad-Hoc Committee set up by the House of Representatives to investigate the Health Implications of Telecommunications Towers in residential buildings, called for public hearings on Monday 10th and Tuesday 11th April, 2017, at which the industry was supposed to be represented by ALTON, but the Committee, insisted that each operator make its own presentation. “There were further hearings on Tuesday, 25th April and 8th and 23rd May 2017. However, at those Hearings the Committee insisted that it would only grant audience to the CEOs of the Companies and no other representative, in spite of technical knowledge and seniority of such representatives. Adebayo noted that some of the investigative duties of the different committees overlap and require similar information from the attendees. “For instance, members are summoned by both the standing Committee on Telecoms and its Ad-hoc Committee on Operational activities of Telecoms Equipment and Service Providers both investigating loss of revenue to the Federal Government. “The Committee on telecoms is also investigating loss of jobs which the Committee on Labour also summons members in respect of. The Committee on Telecoms also served summons for investigation by its Adhoc Committee for Value Added Services and Committee investigating locally manufactured skills. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .