Commercial motorcyclists protest against alleged killing of member by police over N50
Some youths in Evbuomama community in Ikpoba-Okah Local Government Area of Edo State have set ablaze the residence of a police officer following the death of one Glory Imarogie. The deceased was said to have died in a hospital after he was allegedly tortured at the Edo police headquarters. He was said to have been arrested after he had an altercation with his landlord, a serving police officer, SP Austin Ehiziegbe. His landlord was said to have been annoyed because late Glory’s niece celebrated her birthday at his residence without his permission. A fracas was said to have ensued between the landlord and his tenant when the deceased and his brothers resisted attempts to stop the birthday party. SP Austin allegedly invited policemen from the Anti-Cult Unit and told his colleagues that cult members had invaded his residence to celebrate a birthday party. Father of the deceased, a retired police officer, Mr. Joseph Imarogie, said his two sons were arrested during the birthday party of his granddaughter because the landlord said he did not give them permission. Imarogie said his sons were arrested and tortured till they were granted bail, but one of his sons had already taken ill. He said Glory later died at the hospital. On his part, the landlord said he was surprised when he received a call that the house had been set ablaze. “I received a call this morning that the boy that fought me and was granted bail was rushed to the hospital where he died. My family later called me that people have set fire on the house.” Edo police spokesman, DSP Chidi Nwabuzor, confirmed the incident and said some persons had been arrested. Meanwhile, there was protest at the popular Water-works road within the Abakaliki metropolis yesterday by motorcycle riders following the alleged shooting and killing of one of them by the police. The Guardian gathered that the victim was allegedly shot and killed by a policeman over argument bordering on N50. The governor, David Umahi, has ordered the arrest and prosecution of the suspect describing the incident as barbaric and callous and expressed confidence that justice will be done in the killing of the deceased. He said the incident has further called for more dedication, commitment and professional training of the country’s security personnel to stop further killings of innocent Nigerians on the line of their duties. Okada riders were seen burning tyres and dumping refuse at the centre of the road in protest of one of their members (names withheld) who investigation revealed that the trigger-happy policeman shot under the influence of alcohol. The Senior Special Assistant to Governor David Umahi on Internal Security, Dr. Kenneth Ugbala, who visited the scene of the incident ordered the men and officers of Ebonyi State Fire Service to come and quench the burning tyres to forestall breakdown of law and order and destruction of property. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .