 [FILE] Senator Obaisi Ovie Omo-Agege  At the church service, the governorship candidate, Chief Great Ogboru; former governor, Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan; senator representing Delta Central, Ovie Omo-Agege; and the party chairman, Jones Erie, said in unison that “2019 is for the party to take over the governance of Delta and bring a new dawn of development to years of slavery and underdevelopment by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP).” Uduaghan said that with him and Ogboru, who had been political foes, in one camp, the issue of who wins the 2019 elections in Delta had been settled. Said he: “I know how we had been doing it before, and with both of us now in one camp, victory is already sure come 2019.” Senator Omo-Agege affirmed that with the configuration of the different personalities in the party, the time to liberate the state had been set. He told journalists that the focus of the state’s party leadership was to win convincingly in the state, and return President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019. Ogboru assured the church and Deltans of better governance come 2019, stressing that his governorship victory had been foretold. He added that because victory was already assured, they had come to formally dedicate the campaign committee and the entire process of the 2019 project to God, as the journey might not be smooth. The Delta APC chairman said that it had been shown to him that he would lead the next governor of Delta to the Governor’s House in Asaba as the chairman of the party. Director-general of Ogboru Campaign Organisation (OCO), Chief Peters Omaruaye, who described the event as a sign of matured politicking, asserted: “It may interest you to know that our governorship candidate, Chief Great Ogboru, as a man of faith, ensures that whatever he does, he brings in God. “So we decided to allow God to lead the way, as we begin the process towards getting Delta electorate to make wise decisions by electing Chief Ogboru, Dr. Uduaghan, Senator Omo-Agege and other APC candidates, so that together we can salvage our dear state, by making it the pride of South South in particular and Nigeria in general. “The idea became more attractive because the times are not normal, so we are appreciating God in advance by building on solid foundation, because unless the Lord builds, we labour in vain.” However, the different men of God, who prayed during the thanksgiving/dedication, called on Deltans to allow the Holy Spirit to lead them to make a wise decision.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .