 [FILE] Federal High Court sitting in Jos on Monday, fixed Jan.16 for the adoption of final written addresses in the alleged  N25 billion corruption charge filed against former Governor Danjuma Goje.<br />Photo: News  The Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC) in 2012, charged Goje with 20 counts of conspiracy and money laundering. Also being charged along with Goje are Alhaji Aliyu El-Nafarty, former Chairman, Gombe State Universal Basic Education Board, Alhaji Sambo Tumu, his cousin, who was contracted to supply food to the Government House, and one S.M. Dakoro, a businessman. The anti-graft agency alleged that the defendants conspired to defraud the state of about N25 billion via illegal acts, contrary to, and punishable under sections 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19 of the Money Laundering (Prohibition Act) 2011 as amended. Justice Babatunde Quadiri, fixed the day, after Chief Chris Uche (SAN), the Defence Counsel, told the court that the he had an application of a “no-case-submission’’ made by the four accused. “My Lord, we have a motion before your lordship, applying for a no-case-submission made by all the accused, which we wish to move now, but subject to the convenient of the court. “The motion is seeking for an extension of time within which to file our application for no-case-submission as agreed upon in the last adjournment, ’’ Uche stated. Uche told the court that the application had already been served on the prosecution. According to him, “a reply to our application has been done and a copy of it was given to us right here in court this Monday morning.’’ Also, Mr Wahab Shittu, the EFCC counsel, who concurred with the submissions of Uche, did not object to the application, which he described as “a very harmless’’ application. Nevertheless, Chief Uche, after moving the application, pleaded with the court to give the defence 14 days within which to also respond to the reply of the prosecution on points of law. “My Lord, the prosecution brought a 304 page response to our application, which we need to study and also reply them on points of law, ’’ he pleaded. Justice Quadiri, then adjourned the case to Jan. 16, for adoption of final written addresses both parties in the case. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .