 Executive Secretary, Association of Power Generation Companies (APGC), Joy Ogaji  Five  years after privatisation of the power sector took place, how have we fared?
I think from 2013, a number of issues affected the performance of the power sector. One of the issues is that government agencies charged with the responsibility of monitoring the performance of the privatised entities were not aware of their full responsibilities. In the first one year, we were still basking in the euphoria of being the first country in the world to unbundle and privatise both the distribution, as well as, the generation subsector of the power sector. While we rejoiced, we completely forgot our role in monitoring their performances. You should know that the generation, as well as, the distribution subset of the value chain were made to sign a performance agreement with the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE). Those performance agreements have Key Performance Indicators (KPI) that can be benchmarked, and the responsibility of bench-marking those KPIs were handled by the BPE and Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC). The BPE was involved because it is the practising entity and the midwife of that practising exercise, and the NERC because of the licensing terms. They licensed those companies to either generate or distribute. So, it is incumbent upon them to monitor these firms to ensure that the terms and conditions contained in the various agreement are kept. Till date, both agencies are trying to develop a monitoring template that is not yet complete from 2013 to now. If you check other countries side-by-side with the privatisation, they are also developing a monitoring template that will benchmark the various companies from day one because we all know the aim of any businessman is to maximise profit, and in maximising that profit, many things could be compromised, which is why the performance agreement was put in place to ensure they do not go outside their KPIs. The KPIs were projects and activities that were promised and written in the business plan by these operators in the distribution and generation subsector. We ought to monitor them, but we completely forgot about it. And by the time they realised the need to monitor them, a year had already gone by and the two agencies (BPE and NERC) started fighting themselves on who should monitor and who should not monitor. So, if you ask me what has happened, I would say the sector has not fared well and I put the blame on the government. In the United Kingdom, they are co-opting all the operators and that is why they are performing. The regulations there are effective. Here, our laws and regulations are not effective because when they are contravened, there are no consequences, no sanctions, and no penalties. This makes such law toothless. Section 32 and 96 of the Power Sector Reform Act of 2005, gave NERC so much power that they can bite and nobody can question them, and the good news is that they are backed by the National Assembly. If the foundation is destroyed, the house will not stand. I am not saying the operators have not done well, they have tried, but if there is no law, there will be anarchy. What we are actually facing in the sector is a state of anarchy, lawlessness and lack of coordination. Who is the leader in the sector? How can you achieve progress? When there is no leader, there is no coordination. NERC feels it is in charge while the minister feels he is both the regulator and policy maker.
If you go to NERC’s website there are many regulations there that do not have policy backing, and we know that any policy that does not have a regulation backing it up is meant to fail because policy is the bedrock upon which any law rests. For example, the 2005 Electricity Power Sector Recovery Act was backed by the 2001 Nigeria Electric Power Policy. That policy underpins everything so that no one can challenge it. The ministry in trying to fill up the gap of lack of policy made so many regulations that are not policy-backed. We expected that the ministry would realise its roles and focus on policies to cover up all those regulations without policy backing, rather what we saw was the ministry also seeing itself as a regulator. Five years after, things have really fallen apart. The generation companies were saddled with the responsibility of ensuring that they recover capacity. Within five years, each of them was given a number of capacities to recover. For example, Ugheli took over when the capacity generated was about 160megawatts (mw) and they were supposed to ramp up the capacity to 650 megawatts in five years. As at June last year, Ugheli had recovered capacity and even exceeded. Instead of 650mw, it recorded 701mw. Ugheli was not able to send out all the 701mw because while the generation companies were saddled with the responsibility of recovering capacity, the distribution and transmission companies were not developed. The distribution companies have been giving excuses and stories about their inability to collect tariff and so on. I want Nigerians to ask themselves, generation companies were able to recover capacity and currently we have an installed capacity of 13, 496mw and available capacity of 7, 913mw, yet the GenCos could not increase because they have expectation to double their capacity. But nobody is talking.  It is a market of an unwilling buyer and a willing seller because the GenCos are ready to sell, but we don’t have a willing buyer. The NERC and TCN have been begging the DisCos to take power and if they take the power and sell, they still beg them again to pay. Let the matter speak for itself. The state of electricity in the country can be best described by the consumer. If the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola thinks it has really improved, then I expect the consumers to react because I am not omnipresent. I can only tell you what my generation companies are generating; what they have available, and we are not in charge of distributing. I can also tell you that for the past three years, I am still using my power generating sets, and as I speak to you they are on. So, I don’t know which part of the country that power has so improved that people are no longer using their generator. I expect the consumers to react. How do we address the liquidity crisis rocking the sector?
Resolving the liquidity crisis is not rocket science. One of the solutions is data. We don’t have enough data in the market, and our regulators go to operators for data. What do you expect in such a situation when the person who is supposed to monitor the market calls the operators for data. Another issue is that the more customers I give to you, the fewer tariffs I am permitted to collect. If that’s the mathematics, then I will want to give you fewer customers so that I can collect more. If the regulator does not have its data to corroborate, then anything can happen. The regulator needs independent data to benchmark and monitor the operators. But in a situation where you call me to ask how much I have generated and I give you a figure and you don’t have an independent means of verifying that figure, then a lot can happen. Apart from the financial challenges, what are the other pressing issues bogging down power generation companies, and their possible solutions?
We need a more transparent billing and collection system. On the one hand, consumers claim that they are paying, while on the other hand DisCos are saying that they are not. When two people are engaged in a controversy, the best way is to bring in an independent body to bring neutrality. We need a situation where all the stakeholders will see how the money is coming in. When this is the case, nobody can blame the other because there’s neutrality. If you do that, the distribution companies will be vindicated from the blame of collecting and keeping money. By the end of the month, we will know exactly what came in. I also think that government needs to divest its 40 per cent share and introduce new and experienced people into distribution in order to inject more expertise into how distribution companies are run. Currently, government doesn’t understand how the distribution companies work. Most of government representatives are only on the board, they don’t appear, but stay in their hotels, get their allowances and submit reports that they know nothing about. Government also needs to come out clearly and let consumers know the state of things. It also needs to tell the people that social amenities do not include power, in other words, consumers should be made to know that if you want electricity, they have to pay for it. It is luxury. The other challenge we have is centred around dispatch, which is caused by transmission. In a number of cases, the capacity of transmission in normal cases is nearly, or above installed generation capacity. Currently we have available capacity of about 8, 000mw and a willing capacity that’s not more than 5, 000mw. Distribution capacity cannot take more than 4, 500 megawatts while there’s available capacity of 8, 000. There’s a disjoint. Government needs to urgently improve the distribution and transmission network if it is really serious. As you know, power cannot be bottled for sale, but should be consumed as it is being generated. Government asked us to ramp up generation capacity without ramping up transmission and generation capacity to collect what we are generating so we are losing because they pay only for what they collect, and our machines are subjected to generate below level. A generator that has capacity to generate 450mw is made to generate 150mw. Within this process, the gas plants lose as much as 20 per cent of gas. The second challenge is gas. There are no effective contracts in the market, so what’s currently happening is the best endeavour in the sense that when you need, I give, and nobody is bound. With the current liquidity where the DisCos are paying only 20 per cent, we are constrained. The other issue is in the area of forex, where we are paid the current CBN rate of N307, but we cannot have access to that N307. We buy from the parallel market, which is around N360 and nobody takes care of that difference. That is a loss. The management of the grid is another issue. The up and down frequency is very technical, and the volatility of the network destroys our machines. In the morning they will ask us to come at 300mw. When we are set and start going, maybe 20 per cent into that, they will just ask us to step down by force. That forcefully ramping down destroys our machines and force us to carry out maintainance several times instead of two or three times. If we don’t comply, people will not get electricity. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .