 [FILE PHOTO] Minister of Communication, Adebayo Shittu.  Shittu, who spoke to reporters in Abuja, ruled out the possibility of heeding to the call by the reconciliation committee on him to bury the hatchet in the interest of the party. The Comrade Adams Oshiomhole-led national working committee (NWC) had on the eve of the primaries disqualified Shittu on the pretext that he did not participate in the mandatory national youths service corps (NYSC) scheme. Shittu, who has approached the court to seek justice on the matter, insisted that his position did not amount to indulging in anti-party activities. According to him: “Before you talk of reconciliation you must first talk of restitution. If you violate somebody’s rights, or you seize somebody’s property and you are found out, instead of you to deliver what you had stolen you are now talking of reconciliation. I have is akin o saying that you must have peace even if there is no justice. “As for me I don’t recognize the candidate of APC, I am in court and I am sure that I would triumph over those who were not as intelligent in foisting a candidate on the party. “With all sense of humility I have passed the stage where any party would threaten me. I am in court and if the party is sure that it has a better basis for what they have done, I let us go and meet in court. You don’t start threatening I who feel unfairly treated thinking you can get me out of the justice system.” Shittu expressed optimism that he would triumph over the antics of his adversaries and that it was unfortunate that Adelabu was foisted by Governor Abiola Ajimobi as the governorship candidate of the party barely two months after joining the party. Reiterating his support for the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2019 poll, he disclosed that he would inaugurate the coalition of a grassroots campaign for Buhari/Osinbajo election in Oyo state on the 5th of January 2019 in a bid to gamer two million votes for the President. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .