 [FILE] APC Lagos State governorship candidate Babajide Sanwo-Olu…..PHOTO: Twitter/jidesanwoolu  Sanwo-Olu said the campaign would help his party understand the major causes of traffic snarl in the state. The launch, which took place at Lekki Phase One Toll Plaza, provided motorists free access at the toll point from six pm to 7pm. even as they were also offered cold drinks on the spot. He said: “We decided to be very innovative by opening up some of the toll plazas to let people pass through and see how much of backlog we can clear. So for us, it’s a stimulation to come and have a first hand feel on how we should solve a traffic problem of Lagos. “In the evening, what we are planning to do is, is it possible for us to turn this 12 lanes to 18 lanes, and if we can creatively extend 12 to 16,18,20 lanes.” The APC guber candidate explained that it was imperative for people to witness some of the plans in action than mere words from the office, adding, “We want them to test all of the good things we are talking about to make Lagos, Your Lagos a greater Lagos for all of us. We will be going to a lot of traffic gridlocks.” He stated: “Part of the innovative ways is can we make the payment one direction. We have tried a lot of things and that’s why we have come here to provide solutions and let people benefit.” Sanwo-Olu maintained that the possibility of making it toll free could be considered in the future adding, “we will look at the cost and the benefits that’s engineering. If the cost is not going to kill us and the benefit is that thousands of Nigerians are off the road, it reduces their blood pressure, it reduces their time to get home, reduces the health problems that they have why won’t we do it. Is that not why we are in government? We are in government to create better life for people. We are not meant to return to stumbling block.” On how he intends to engage with the people, the APC standard-bearer said his team hopes to start tweeting again to gather inputs on possible solutions, noting that “on Sunday we will start our tweeting again and Lagosians can converse with us on what they have seen and what are the things they what us to improve upon or change those are the conversation and that’s what governance is about.” Meanwhile Mr. Sanwo-Olu has urged Nigerians to perform their Civic responsibilities in the upcoming election to ensure the emergence of competent leaders to preside over the affairs of the country. The APC guber candidate, who made the call at the Grace 2018 of the Household of God Ministries held in Lagos, stated: “We can not afford not to participate, take a back sit and not ask questions. We can not afford to let this opportunity slip by.” He said citizens must hold politicians to account, talk about issues and things that affect them as Nigerians. Earlier in his remarks, founder of the church, Rev. Chris Okotie, explained that the annual programme is used to demonstrate the church’s love for the less privileged and recognize those who have contributed to national development. At the event, the first Nigerian/African Principal of King’s College, Lagos, the late Dr. Reginald Akpofure was awarded 2018 Karis Award and given N2million for his distinguished service to the nation. Some of the past awardees include, former head of state, Major Gen. Murtala Muhammed, notable politician, late Mallam Aminu Kano, social critic, Dr. Tai Solarin and social crusader, late chief Gani Fawehinmi. The church also gave N2million each to support four charity organisations namely, The Pacelli School for the Blind and Partially Sighted, the Sunshine Foundation, Spinal Cord Injuries Association of Nigeria and Strong Tower Mission.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .