Conor McGregor PHOTO:AFP “The only substitute for hardwork is hard life”-Bishop David Oyedepo. Talent is overrated! In the next few decades, the idea of talent would become a myth, as the disruption caused by technology now affords people the ability to learn even what they do not have talent for. I have seen people play the piano and guitar very well with lessons gotten from YouTube. With the advent of technology and social media, you can learn anything, anywhere and at any time. You don’t need to wait to be talented to do some things; if you can put in the required hours, dedication and tenacity, I bet you can learn to do virtually anything.This piece is not to underrate talent and gifts, but actually to call our solemn attention to the negligence of grit in the face of gifts. Your gift is useless without grit, hardwork, tenacity and perseverance. In my years of mentoring and coaching, I have observed that it is the people that have so much grit and not gift that reach the finishing line. Eric Thomas said: “When you want to succeed as bad as you want to breathe, then you’ll be successful.” Until you want it bad enough, then you are not fit to have it. The only thing that beats talent is hardwork. Successful people are hardworking and obsessed. The image that constantly stays in mind would ultimately happen in time. Our lives would always go in the direction of our most predominant thought. What is that picture that keeps flashing back in your mind, and are you working hard towards this? Aristotle once said: “We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act, but a habit.” Oyedepo said: “The only substitute for hard work is hard life.” I have observed that people that take hardwork for granted don’t normally succeed in life, no matter how talented they are. You must be able to work hard on your talents and gifts if you ever want to stand out in life. When you work so hard on your talent, you would be so good that people cannot ignore you. It is the WILL and not the SKILL. In his book, Talent Is Never Enough, a book that radically changed my life, John C. Maxwell said: “Talent is never enough. There’s no substitute for it, but there’s also no guarantee of success with it. To turn talent into influence, a person must prepare it with HARD WORK, surround it with the right relationships, strengthen it by taking responsibility and protect it with character.” John Maxwell emphasised the supremacy of hardwork, choices, obsession, perseverance, consistency and dedication. He dwelt on the fact that only “talent-plus people,” those whose personal attributes activate, direct, sustain and protect their talent, are able to rise to the top. Alexander the Great was obsessed. Abraham Lincoln was obsessed; he was asked after failing repeatedly in politics what his next step would be, but he kept saying, “I will keep studying and preparing, and someday my opportunity will come.” Alexander Graham Bell was obsessed with the idea of the telephone. Thomas Edison was obsessed with the idea of the electric bulb, no wonder he attempted the trials 1,000 times before finally getting it. Albert Einstein was obsessed. Arnold Schwarzenegger is obsessed, even after he was told that he was too short for acting and his foreign intonation wouldn’t sell much in Hollywood, he was still undaunted. Jackie Chan is obsessed. Usain Bolt is obsessed. Mohammed Ali was obsessed. Roger Federer is obsessed. Lewis Hamilton is obsessed. People that would be hyper successful in life are to work harder on the following: Their Talent And Gift
Leo Buscaglia said: “Your talent is God’s gift to you. What you do with it is your gift back to God.” Everybody is gifted for something, but the winning edge comes from our ability to work on our gifts and bless the world with it. The very best way to develop yourself is in the direction of your natural talents and interest. To live a fulfilled and impactful life, we need to work harder on our gift than our job. We need to discover our gift, develop it and sell it. Until you discover and nurture your gift, you would continue to travel another man’s journey. Johann Von Goethe said: “The person born with a talent they are meant to use will find their greatest happiness in using it.” Your Dreams
Dreams get you into the future add excitement to the present. The biggest adventure you can take is to live the life of your dreams. Rodney White said: “It costs nothing to dream and everything not to.” Build your own dreams or someone else would hire you to build theirs. Work hard on your dreams or you would spend the rest of your life working for people. Your Passion
Working hard on the things we are passionate about excite us while working hard on what we are not passionate about exhaust us. John Maxwell said: “People don’t need to follow the common path to be successful; they need to follow their passion.”Discover the one thing that you were created to be and be willing to pay the price to be it. Your Goals
When you work hard on your goals, it becomes a gold mine. Anthony Robins said: “People are not lazy; they simply have impotent goals that do not inspire them.” Your Vision
If you don’t work hard on your vision, you would become an omission. He who does not look ahead always remains behind. Where there is no faith in the future, there is no power in the present. Getting Better
Don’t be obsessed with being perfect; be obsessed with getting better. For you to go far in life, your desire to get better must be greater than your desire to beat others. Jim Rohn, the foremost personal development coach in the world, said: “Learn to work harder on yourself than you do on your job. If you work hard on your job, you’ll make a living, if you work hard on yourself, you can make a fortune.” Author, Emile Zola, spoke truly when he said: “The artist is nothing without the gift, but the gift is nothing without work.” Preparation positions you, so that when opportunity comes, your talent can shine. “Talent alone won’t make you a success. Neither will being in the right place at the right time, unless you are ready. The most important question is: Are you ready?” Johnny Carson remarked. I have some few questions for you: When have you seen talent squandered? What was the reason why someone’s ability went to waste? I can assure you that your answers would be linked to when talented people are not working hard or believing more in their talents. Many youths are talented, but lazy. They keep blaming the government and the economy for their personal woes when their major problem is laziness and personal neglect. Latent gift is no gift at all. No man blesses the world with hidden gifts and talent. You would need to ‘fan’ it into flame and you would need to work hard on it. The Bible says in 2 Timothy 1:6: “For this reason, I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God, which is in you through the laying on of my hands.” Are you just leaving your gift dormant, waiting for luck and chance to smile at you? Life favours only the prepared mind and when opportunity comes, it is too late to prepare.I have observed that it is people that have so much grit and not gift that reach the finishing line. Life’s major assignment is to discover that area of your gifting, talent, ability and passion and to consistently work hard on doing those things that bring that gift to peak performance. Then a genius is formed. The grave is full of talented people who never worked hard on their talents. Please, don’t join them. Don’t bury your talent with laziness. Dreams don’t work unless you do.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .