A crew member for the hit show Power has died after an accident on set. He was reportedly hit by a car while placing traffic cones on the film location in Brooklyn New York. 50 Cent who stars in the show has expressed his condolences via Twitter saying, “my prayers and condolences are with the entire Jimenez family.” There has been a break in filming to give the crew and cast time away from the show. The members of the cast of the show paid tribute to the victim who had been a crew member since 2014 when the show started. “Truly shocked and saddened! Losing one of our own really hit home today,” wrote actor Naturi Naughton who starred as Sasha in the show Joseph Sikora who plays Tommy added: “Thank you for always having a smile and bringing so much love with you to set.” And Omari Hardwick, who plays lead character James ‘Ghost’ St Patrick in the series, described Jimenez as “beautiful, hard-working and gracious”.    I sit next to my family as i type this post of a day gone the worst. Started as a regular ole workday for everyone of us. Ironically for me the night prior saw me as part of the special CNN Heroes annual gala honoring local yet worldwide heroes. I found myself presenting to 1 of those heroes. And now, as the man who was given the challenge of quarterbacking this very formidable team into 6 successful seasons of play, i find myself presenting along with my colleagues & producers this tragic tragic news of one of our work family members losing his life on the job. Unless under a rock ….all of you who have rooted for me & this show…..have heard me pay homage to our crew over & over & over again. I was born a team player & will leave this earth as one. On this “just another work day”, we all were & are faced with the harshest of realities that a wife has lost her husband, children their father & friends…..their beautiful hardworking GRACIOUS Pedro. As the QB of this show & as the face of the network, this has of course affected me. But as a person in communication & exchange of spirit as much as i was with good ole Pedro…i’m rocked. NO team ever imagines losing a teammate. Let alone like this. On behalf of ALL of us here at Power, we send our deepest condolences to the entire Jimenez family & God, we ask that you warmly receive our good ole Pedro. Please send up prayers for the Jimenez family while loving on your own A post shared by  Omari Hardwick (@omarihardwickofficial) on Dec 10, 2018 at 11:14am PST 