 Chief of Army Staff, Gen. T. Y. Buratai<br />  Buratai, who stated this yesterday during the decoration ceremony at the Army Headquarters Command Officers’ Mess in Abuja, said that though many others deserved promotion, the final number was arrived at based on vacancies available for posting. “Since vacancy is the major factor in determining those to be promoted, we must get best. The rest that are not promoted are good but will have their time. Also, you must remember that promotion is from God alone. “It is done for the purpose of our service and purpose of our country. We must get the right people at the right time. Moreover, it has received the blessings of the President and Commander in Chief, President Muhammadu Buhari. He told the senior officers to prepare for deployment to the North-East for the fight against the insurgency, adding:“You must remain committed, your loyalty must be unshakeable and you should remain professional in your responsibilities.” Among those decorated were Major-Generals Solomon Odounwa (former DA, UN Mission, New York), Charles Ofoche (Co-ordinator, Studies, Army War College), Sule Zakari Kazaure (DG, NYSC), Danjuma Alli-Keffi, Sani Mohammed (Commandant, Depot NA), Yusuf Shalangwa, Adeleke Bakare and Wilson Azuka Obi. Others were Major-Generals Temitope Ademola (DA, China), Osagiede Uzamere, Kayode Ogundele, Okechukwu Ugo, Maher Bashir, Abdullahi Othman, Musa Mshelia, Christopher Musa, Igiwiyisa Ehiorobo, Bolaji Nichodemus Salami, Tunde Akinjobi, Johnson Irefin, Victor Offiong, Simon Ibikunle, Jelil Ogunlade, Godwin Umelo, Obiora Enendu, Maude Ali, M.H. Magaji and Ope Ali. Among the Brigadier-Generals decorated were John Sura, Eric Emeka, Wilson Azuka Obi, Segun Adetoro, Jonathan Awun, Etuk John-Okon, Eyitayo Oyinlola, K.A. Kazir, Sylvester Oloyede, F.G. Dimlong, Idris Abdulkadir, Saidu Musa and W.G. Nasir.
Others were Brigadier-Generals Ayoola Abooba, Jubrin Aliyu, H.I. Mabioku, Muhammad Usman, H. Oyelade, K.E. Ede and Busari. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .