Head, Legal/Corporate Communications, Promasidor Nigeria Limited, Mr. Andrew Enahoro; President, Nutrition Society of Nigeria, Dr. Bartholomew Brai; Managing Director, Promasidor Nigeria, Mr. Anders Einarsson, and Head of Commercial, Promasidor Nigeria, Mario Russo at the unveiling of SunVita Cereal… in Lagos The Managing Director of Promasidor Nigeria, Anders Einarsson, has said 75 per cent of raw material of the company’s new product Sunvita is sourced locally, reflecting the company’s robust backward integration programme. While speaking at the media unveiling in Lagos, Einarsson said the decision to look inward for raw materials was informed by the company’s desire to contribute to the growth of agricultural value chain, which would also create massive employment opportunities and reduce capital flight. He said, “The raw materials of SunVita is about 75 per cent sourced locally. It demonstrates our commitment to backward integration and local capacity utilisation in line with the economic need of the country. This will translate to more direct and indirect jobs for the youths, as it will increase activities in agricultural value chain. “At Promasidor Nigeria, we understand the constraint on time; 24 hours are no longer enough for individuals to complete their daily routines, have fun and rest. Since we cannot increase the number of hours we have to work and play, we must continue to explore better ways of managing time. This is one of the ideas behind SunVita. “Consumers need a quick, convenient meal that can be taken as a formal meal at home or as an energy boosting snack during the day when they are away from home. And this need can be met without compromising their health. This is what SunVita has done. The cereal does not need cooking, which requires time and energy”. General Manager (Large Enterprise), Bank of Industry, Leonard Kange, who joined other dignitaries to tour the factory, said he was impressed with the investment. He said the company’s backward integration agenda was in line with the country’s industrial revolution roadmap. He said, “The production process is fantastic. I am particular excited because I can see the product of our intervention. It is good to know that the fund we gave to Promasidor is invested in a project that will address key challenges facing Nigerians.” Head of Commercial, Promasidor Nigeria, Mario Russo, described SunVita as an energizing meal the whole family can take at any time of the day. Fortified with Nutri-V, the product, according to Russo, is a unique blend of zinc, calcium, iron and vitamins. Also, Head of Corporate, Promasidor Nigeria, Andrew Enahoro, said SunVita “is a product of a four-year incubation,” saying the company would ensure it breaks into the mainstream market as a leading brand in the nearest future.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .