Manchester United’s Norwegian caretaker manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer (L) shakes Cardiff City’s Gabonese defender Bruno Ecuele Manga on the pitch after the English Premier League football match between between Cardiff City and Manchester United at Cardiff City Stadium in Cardiff, south Wales on December 22, 2018. – Manchester United won the game 5-1. (Photo by Geoff CADDICK / AFP) / Nothing beats football during the holidays. The Premier League continue the ritual with a full serving of fixtures while the Serie A joins in the fun after seeing how successful Premier League’s Boxing Day coverage is. Here are five days to savour during the festivities. Leicester City vs Manchester City
Manchester City’s 3-2 loss to Crystal Palace was shocking to say the least. Leicester also had a surprise win over Chelsea last over the last weekend. It will be a battle betweena team trying to bounce back from a loss and another looking to consolidate on their impressive win. Pep Guardiola is expected to ring few changes with Kevin De Bruyne and Sergio Aguero back to full fitness. The Citizens won’t want to lose even further ground to table-toppers Liverpool Inter vs Napoli 
Serie A will be live on Boxing day for the first time in history and the fixtures generator blessed us with a gem. The battle between second placed Napoli and third placed Inter. The Nerazzurri are currently eight points behind Napoli due to their inconsistency. Luciano Spalletti’s men have dropped seven points from their last four games while Napoli are currently unbeaten in 10 games with a four game winning streak. Carlo Ancelotti has kept his men in the straight and narrow, eight points behind Juventus, despite the loss of their former manager Sarri and deep-lying playmaker Jorginho. Napoli will hope not to cede further ground to Juventus in the game against Inter. Liverpool vs Newcastle 
After City’s slip up against Crystal Palace, Klopp’s men are four points clear at the top of the table. A win against Newcastle would be a record 26th Premier League win for the Reds in the calendar year. Newcastle’s sturdy defence could threaten to stop Liverpool’s rampant attack but Mohamed Salah’s recent form might just prove otherwise. Manchester United vs Huddersfield 
Against Cardiff City, United fans were treat to high octane, swashbuckling attacking football that was only rare during the last months of sacked Jose Mourinho’s tenure. Caretaker manager, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, who understands the United way will hope to keep the fans purring at the Old Trafford when second from bottom-placed Huddersfield visit. Watford vs Chelsea 
Maurizio Sarri has stated his need for a reaction after the loss to Leicester City last weekend. With the team seemingly slipping out of the title race, the Italian would hope a result against the Hornets breathes life into the challenge. Impressive Watford could be a tough nut to crack, the team looks workman like and fitted for such games. Hard and willing runners keen to hurt the opposition on the break. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .