Chief Victor Oye Aggrieved members of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) have demanded the expulsion of the National Chairman of the party, Chief Victor Oye. Besides, the members, numbering over 500, after a crucial meeting in Awka yesterday, have demanded the refund of over N1 billion allegedly collected by the party for various positions, alleging scanning of party members. Onyeka Mbanaso, who participated in the primary, while addressing newsmen after their meeting, said that Oye did not fulfill his own part of the agreement to provide a level playing ground for all the aspirants. He alleged that the national chairman and his henchmen filled all positions with ‘foreigners’ who knew nothing about APGA, insisting that there was no primary held anywhere in the state. He said: “We have come to tell the world what happened three months ago during the purported APGA primary in Anambra State. APGA was invaded by foreigners.” The executive, led by Oye, allegedly turned the party into a business venture where aspirants paid huge sums of money but were denied positions. “What we are asking for is refund of our money spent for purchase of delegate forms, expression of interest forms for the state and National Assembly seats because Oye failed to meet up with his own side of the agreement. “Because of the fact that there was no primary, we want all our money refunded and Oye must resign as national chairman.” adding that aspirants spent money to campaign in the Primary. However, an aspirant for Nnewi 1 Constituency, Dr. Charles Egbulie, said that the excluded members could not stay to watch while the progressive ideologies put together by late Chief Emeka Odumegwu-Ojukwu and other elders are allowed to be desecrated by some ruthless members. Egbulie, a member of the party’s reconciliation committee, urged stiff sanction against those who played what he termed ignoble roles to disorganise APGA. Also, former Majority Leader (PDP), Anambra House of Assembly, Humphrey Nsofor, said he was the most aggrieved having sustained gunshot injuries by imported thugs on October 5, 2018 at the Beverly Hotel, Nnewi, during the aborted primary, insisting that interlopers should not be allowed to run APGA down.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .