 Hockey  Niger Flickers players could not move close to the Egyptian side for any attempt at scoring, as their North African opponent dominated the encounter throughout the duration of the match. The Delta Queens, one of Nigeria’s flag bearers in the female category of the continental championship, was forced to 1-1 draw by USIU of Kenya. Delta Queens had shot into the lead through Esther Billion barely five minutes into the game when she shot past Teressia Wainaina in goal for the Kenyan side. But the victory celebration had not died down when Amutebi Pauline Naise surprisingly beat the Delta Queens’ defence, including Rita Aluge in goal for the equaliser. The country’s flag bearer could not increase the scoreline to chalk up the maximum three points at stake, as they managed to run away with the draw. Coach Ade Jacob Richard of Delta Queens said his players were not quick to get into the game. “This is our first outing, and we were forced to a draw. We have two teams from Ghana and another from Kenya to contend with in this championship, and I hope to lead the team to victory.” Earlier, the Kada Queens, another of Nigeria’s flag bearer in the championship played goalless against the GRA of Ghana.The Telkom team, another Kenyan ladies side defeated Ghana Police 2-1 among the matches decided, but the Ghanaian GRA, the men’s side, surprisingly came from 0-3 down to level 3-3 against El-Sharkia of Egypt. The Ghanaians shot up 4-3, and were almost running away with the victory when the hard fighting north African side forced GRA to 4-4 draw.“I knew from the beginning of the match that this Egyptian side will not beat us even when they were leading us with three goals. With the outcome of this match, we will go far in the championship,” said Ebenezer Arthur, the captain of GRA club of Ghana. It would be Nigeria versus Nigeria today as Delta Queens file out against Kada Queens, just as Ghanaian teams,  GRA ladies file out against Ghana Police. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .