 [FILES] Kaduna town. PHOTO: YouTube  The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the prayers were conducted at 1:00 p.m. by the Chief Imam of the mosque, Sheik Khalid Isiyaku. The former army chief who was buried at Commonwealth Cemetery in Kaduna, died in a London Hospital on Dec. 10. Some of the dignitaries that attended the prayers included fomer Military Head of State, Gen. Abdulsalam Abubakar, Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, Gov El-Rufai of Kaduna State, Gov Yahya Bello of Koji and Minister of Interior, Gen. Abdulrahman Danbazzau Former Governor of Niger, Babangida Aliyu  and his Regular course 1 Nigerian Defence Accademy mates. Buratai, while reading the funeral Oration, described the late army chief as a professional soldier. Ibrahim was born on March 26, 1943 at Okene Local Government area of Kogi. He said  that the late COAS was a member of the Regular Vourse 1 of the Nigerian Defence Academy, Kaduna, who, during his service, undergone several courses such as the strategic operational course. He added that the late General was an articulate and a professional, with a good sense of responsibility. ” His death is a great loss to his family, the Nigerian Army and the country at large,” the Chief of Army Staff stressed. Former head of state, Abubakar, described the deceased as a perfect gentleman and a professional soldier who had worked diligently for the Nigerian Army. He said the death was a colossal loss not only to the Nigerian Army, but to the country, as his wealth of experience would be greatly missed.
Abubakar urged the younger officers to emulate the selfless contribution of the former COAS. He said: ” the late Lt-Gen Ibrahim, until his demise was a source of inspiration to his subordinates.” The Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, described the late Ibrahim as a great military  leader and hero who served the country diligently. The IGP was represented by the Commissioner of Police Kaduna state Command, Malam Abdurrahman Ahmad. Idris said the loss was not only for military  and the family but a great loss to the nation . “The Nigerian police is commiserating with the family and friends. “May his soul rest in perfect peace and Almighty Allah grant him Janah Firdausi,” the IGP said. NAN reports that the late general was the Chief of Army Staff between August 1990 and September 1993 and died on Dec. 10 in a London hospital at the age of 76.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .