Son of the late industrialist, Kehinde Sanusi has vowed to sue the police and his sibling for damaging his reputation and character through malicious prosecution. Kehinde Sanusi is one of the sons of the famed iron and steel merchant, the late Alhaji Abdul-Rasak Olajide Sanusi, who died on 1 August, 1997, leaving behind a will that has generated disputes and divisions among family members over the estate of the deceased, snowballing into several lawsuits in various courts in Nigeria. Briefing journalists yesterday, Kehinde’s lawyer, Ajose Abejoye, said his client had been defamed by the police and his half-sister, Mrs. Bimbo Sanusi–Lawal through malicious prosecution. Abejoye alleged that 17 years after the death of the late iron merchant, on 16 October 2014 to be precise, Kehinde received a telephone call that some policemen from Zone 2, Command Head Quarters, Onikan, Lagos, stormed and forcibly gained entrance into one of the family properties, Sanusi Rubbers Works Limited, located at Akani Doherty Street, off Oba Akran Way, Lagos, with the sole purpose of arresting Kehinde’s elder brother, Suleiman Sanusi. “Immediately, Kehinde proceeded to the said property in order to ascertain the reason for his brother’s arrest. The police said the order to arrest his brother came from above. Kehinde followed the police and his brother to Zone 2 Command headquarters. On getting there, the police informed me that there was a petition against me, Suleiman Sanusi and four others by Bimbo Sanusi for allegedly stealing N2 billion,” he explained. The legal practitioner added that Kehinde and his brother were detained and taken to Igbosere magistrates’ court, but on arraignment, they were charged with offences different from the ones contained in the petition upon which the police arrested them. “However, when the Director of Public Prosecution perused the case file in Charge No: A/43/2014 and the evidence relied upon by the police, which they termed baseless, they advised that Kehinde be discharged. Further to the advice of the DPP, on 27 May, 2015, he was discharged of the allegation of disobeying court order,” he said. Based on the maltreatment of his client, Abejoye said he had been instructed to take legal action against the police and Kehinde’s sibling, Sanusi-Lawal. “Although the truth has been revealed and Mr. Kehinde Sanusi has been vindicated as a just and honest person, his victory came at a very heavy cost, having been brandished in the press as a common criminal. If a man takes away your good name, he has taken away the best part of you,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .