 US President Donald Trump’s former attorney Michael Cohen leaves US Federal Court in New York on December 12, 2018 after his sentencing after pleading guilty to tax evasion, making false statements to a financial institution, illegal campaign contributions, and making false statements to Congress. – US President Donald Trump’s former lawyer Michael Cohen delivered a blistering attack on his former boss as he was sentenced to three years in prison on December 12, 2018 for multiple crimes. “It was my duty to cover up his dirty deeds,” Cohen said as he pleaded for leniency before US District Judge William H. Pauley III.Cohen, 52, said he was taking responsiblity for his crimes “including those implicating the President of the United States of America.” (Photo by TIMOTHY A. CLARY / AFP)  Trump acted because he “was very concerned about how this would affect the election,” Cohen told ABC News of the women’s allegations, in his first comments since being sentenced to three years in prison on Thursday. Trump has said he never directed Cohen to break the law. But Cohen, asked if Trump knew the payments to Stormy Daniels and Karen McDougal were wrong, said “of course.” Cohen challenged Trump’s assertion that he never told him to break the law. “I don’t think there is anybody that believes that,” Cohen told George Stephanopoulos on the program “Good Morning America.” ABC released excerpts of the interview ahead of its full airing. “First of all, nothing at the Trump Organization was ever done unless it was run through Mr. Trump. He directed me to make the payments, he directed me to become involved in these matters,” Cohen said. “He knows the truth. I know the truth. Others know the truth,” Cohen added. “And here is the truth: People of the United States of America, people of the world, don’t believe what he is saying. The man doesn’t tell the truth. And it is sad that I should take responsibility for his dirty deeds,” said Cohen. Asked if he believed Trump was telling the truth about  Russia’s meddling in the US election, Cohen said “no” but he declined to comment further. “That sort of gets into the whole investigation right now between special counsel’s office, the attorney general’s office, you also have the Southern District of New York — I don’t want to jeopardize any of their investigations,” he said. Affairs denied 
Trump denies having affairs with the women who were paid off just weeks before the election in which Trump beat Hillary Clinton. The US president enters his third year in office facing an increasingly perilous situation as federal prosecutors and the special investigation into alleged collusion with Russia close in on him and his inner circle. But he was as combative as ever on Twitter Thursday when he sought to distance himself from Cohen, his loyal fixer for a decade. In his first public reaction since Cohen was sentenced, Trump said he was the victim of the attorney’s malpractice. “He was a lawyer and he is supposed to know the law,” Trump tweeted. “It is called ‘advice of counsel,’ and a lawyer has great liability if a mistake is made. That is why they get paid.” Later, he told Fox News that he was being singled out for a grilling over payments that would not cause a ripple elsewhere among politicians. “Nobody except for me would be looked at like this, nobody,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .