 [FILE] Events competed for during the championship included, football, volleyball, swimming, badminton, lawn tennis, table tennis, tug-of-war and golf.  The Flag Officer Commanding Eastern Naval Command, Rear Adm. David Adeniran, said that the command would continue to reward personnel, who excelled during the championship, noting that, the competition will go a long to prepare the Command for next year Naval Games. He advised the team leaders to commence camping of the athletes from January
2019. He said that, personnel of the Command must be physically fit to withstand the rigor of securing the Nation, adding that, the essence of the intra-command championship was to develop a naval force that is well trained, organised and highly motivated for service delivery. According to him, only physically trained naval officers would be able to rise in defense of the country territorial waters. “The Command’s engagement in this championship has enhanced personnel’s physical fitness, mental alertness, and also foster good sportsmanship among units in the Command and other invited security agencies. “The building of this relationship will enhance synergy and collaboration for better national security and cohesion in terms of information sharing among security agencies,” he said. Adeniran advised athletes who could not win medals in the championship not to give up, but to prepare for next year competition, noting that, the eastern naval command would use the championship to identify athletes to represent it in the forthcoming Nigeria Navy Games. He commended Akwa Ibom Governor, Mr. Udom Emmanuel and Akwa Ibom people for their hospitality during the championship. Earlier, the state Commissioner for Youths and Sports, Mr. Monday Uko, commended the Navy for its outstanding achievements in getting rid of smugglers from the country. Represented by David Umoh, Director Youths Development, Ministry of Youths and Sports, he said that, the state government would continue to support the Navy and other security agencies to ensure peace. Events competed for during the championship included, football, volleyball, swimming, badminton, lawn tennis, table tennis, tug-of-war and golf. Highpoint of the event was the presentation of medals to winning athletes and trophy to the overall winner.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .