Nonso Amadi No doubt, the year 2018 has a blessing to Canada-based singer, songwriter and music producer, Nonso Amadi, as he continued the expansion of his horizon with the release of the visual of his sensual No Crime, which he dropped a month ago. The award-winning Meji Alabi shot the video, which features autumnal shots of Nonso and his girl enjoying a perfect date in the park. From the tantalising hooks to the soulful and smooth vocal delivery, the afrobeat infused R&B track is a stripped back ode to love, and it is perfect for the season of family and love. Amadi teamed up with 506 Music to release the captivating visuals, which has been streamed over 300,000 times on the YouTube channel, whilst the audio has garnered about 150,000 views. This has led him to gain over 40,000+ followers on all his social media platforms. Born and raised in Lagos, during a musical era where soft R&B music dominated the airwaves with artistes such as Paul Play, Plantashun Boyz, Soul E, Banky W, being the top played musicians, Amadi embarked on his music career in 2012, while at Covenant University, where he studied Chemical Engineering. A self-taught songwriter and music producer, Amadi draws his lyrical inspiration from moments of extreme emotional phases such as heartbreak, and sensual pleasures. His music career took a leap in 2015, when he released his debut single titled Alone. In 2016, he followed with Tonight. He has so far proved to be fans favourite, garnering international attention and collaboration with music heavyweights such as Banky W, Maleek Berry and Juls within the first year of his professional career. Amadi has amassed over 10 million audio streams off Spotify and Apple through growing an organic fan base that has led him to gain over 40,000 followers on all his social media platforms. He cites Jon Bellion as his major musical influence, adding that he is also inspired by the acts like Drake, Shakka, Justin Bieber and Bryson Tiller. He also looks up to artistes like Wizkid, Wande Coal, and Maleek Berry for his afro-influence. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .