 Team Edo at the opening ceremony of Abuja 2018 National Sports Festival on Thursday  That was the intent, the spirit and a major objective of the games – to discover and showcase the best talent. 
 
The biannual event was designed to showcase the best athletes in the country, from elite to up-and-coming, exceptionally gifted, young athletes discovered from every nook and cranny of Nigeria, across all Olympic sports, in a festival of healthy competition, cultural exchange, unity, love and friendship in the true spirit and tradition of the Olympic movement. 
 
The three main objectives for establishing the games were to develop and showcase Nigeria’s best in all sports, to unite the youths of a country that had just gone through a 3-year horrific civil war, and to use the games as a social, cultural and economic development tool for the host State.  The commission was under Dr. Isaac Akioye, a thoroughbred professional with sports development ideas acquired in the USA flowing in his veins. 
 
A myopic understanding of the intent of the original visionaries by their main successor in the Sports Ministry became the foundation for the devaluation and dilution of the aims, objectives, goals and successes of the games. 
 
In the early 1990s, with the change of guard at the directorate of sports in the Sports Ministry, the following festivals, as indeed the rest of sports development in Nigeria, began a slow and steady decline under Dr. Amos Adamu, a hardworking academic that came in from the ‘cold’ of academia, obviously failing to capture or imbibe the original objectives of the departing pioneer visionaries. 
 
Before the new man could even get a hang of things further changes as a result of change in governments in the early and mid 1990s took the dilution to irretrievable levels, such that, before we realized it (that’s even if we did at any time till now), the ship of sports was drifting, rudderless, into the vast wilderness of an endless ocean, lost forever to its original vision and destination.  Winning medals by all means and at all costs also became the greatest objective of States rather than developing athletes, athletics and society.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .