 On the lawn;rustic nativity scene  Christmas wreaths decorations
No matter the theme you choose for your Christmas decoration, a festive wreath is always a classic touch. Wreaths are tried-and-true decorations, are easy way to give your home a festive spirit, decorating surfaces like the front door, walls, dinner tables. Home- made wreaths shows  your personality and creativity, and make you stand out among your neighbors. They can also inspire other door accents, such as doorknob hanger, a decorative knocker or an urn placed at the base of the door. The Traditional Colors of Christmas are pine green, poinsettia or heart red and gold which are always the favorite for dinner table mat placements, the foundation for Christmas dinnerware. Blue and white are often used to represent winter or sometimes the Jewish Hanukka, which occurs around the same time.  But this time around, try and think outside the box, the poinsettia and classic Christmas colors of red and green and gold. What about white, blue and silver with silverware, crystal glass and white candle, and  black stripes edgings for a change? Gathering family and friends together is one of the greatest joys of the holiday season. Herald the holiday by taking the celebration outside to your porch, patio and garden with evergreen filled decorative containers. Include sparkling decorations to create holiday scenes for your Christmas pots, or stick with natural ornaments that will last all through the season.  Many gardeners tackle creating Christmas pots as part of their early deccorating the hall routine. Outdoor
Decorating the garden include planters and hanging baskets, nativity scenes, traditional figures and ornaments. Decorate the garden to become the place for Christmas weddings, birthdays, receptions and parties. Decorating ideas for Christmas need not be expensive: the outdoor bar with Christmas bubbles. The lawn becomes the scene for nativity styled decorations and lightening. Lightening
An outdoor area will look great in the evening if you have candles at hand.  Get several votive candles in glass jars or purchase some inexpensive tea light holders. These candles when hung and placed around the patio will create a romantic atmosphere for you and your loved ones. It will be a great place to just relax and enjoy each other’s company. Fairy lights have always been popular mostly indoors. But LED lights are all the range now especially for the outdoor, giving a celestial glow to gardens at night. I love the pure natural rattan hand made sculptures and the fantasy in these lights. Other accents you may want to look at are wind chimes. This will add a tranquil feel to the outdoor dining setting in your backyard so you’ll love to stay outdoors to enjoy a meal or read a good book. Landscaping
Another outdoor decorating idea to improve your home’s exterior appeal is landscaping. Choose your plants carefully and they will reward you by thriving with very little care. Add different textures, heights and colors. Trees also provide shade and are eco-friendly by cooling your home and decreasing energy costs. Make a statement with colorful flowers. They make beautiful accents and can direct the eye to the front door. The outdoor décor will also make your house more beautiful, not only on the outside but it will speak on how gorgeous is the inside, creating a festive atmosphere everywhere in which to celebrate Christmas the birth of Jesus Christ which in Christian parlance ‘is the reason for the season.’  Except you are a Christmas Grinch, have “A Merry Christmas”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .