Senator Ademola Adeleke representing PDP The Osun State People’s Democratic Party governorship candidate in the September 22 election, Senator Ademola Adeleke, Tuesday was re-arraigned by the Nigerian police. Adeleke, who was first arraigned on a four-count charge of conspiracy and impersonation September, had three new charges preferred against him. Adeleke, with four others, was accused by the police for alleged examination malpractice at the Ojo-Aro Community Grammar School in Osun state. Arraigned alongside Adeleke were Sikiru Adeleke, who also sat for the examination; principal of Ojo-Aro Community Grammar School, Alhaji Aregbesola Muftau; the school’s registrar, Gbadamosi Ojo; and Dare Olutope, a teacher at Ojo-Aro Community Grammar School The police force also accused Adeleke of making false documents, regarding his age and violating the exam malpractice act, CAP E15, 2004. Adeleke pleaded not guilty, and also alleged a political witchhunt. During the court sitting in October, the judge, Justice I E, Ekwo, granted three accused persons, who had filed their separate bail applications ahead of the arraignment, bail. The judge granted Adeleke based on his status as a senator. However, he stated that the senator must enter a bond to assure the court that would be present in court for his trial. Justice Ekwo also told Adeleke to leave his passport with the registrar of the court and that the he had to get the permission of the court before he travels out of the country. The two accused persons were granted bail in the sum of N2m each with one surety each who must be a “responsible” citizen and owner of landed property in Abuja. The judge also directed them to deposit their passports with the court’s registry. He noted that they must get the permission of the court before travelling out of the country. Adeleke lost to the candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress, Gboyega Oyetola, in the governorship election while he is the state election tribunal to challenge the result. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .