 Speaking during the Second Annual LCC Nursing Conference in Lagos, Uchenna advised nurses against underestimating the power of God in performing miracles on cancer patients  To avoid this, we employ breast cancer survivors to do mammogram often. They should complete the treatment and more importantly, do radiotherapy six to eight weeks after the last treatment,” she added.
   
Uchenna said Lakeshore Cancer Centre (LCC) has been at the forefront of helping to bring down the burden in cancer treatment.
   
“LCC has been awarded the Best Cancer Centre in Nigeria because we are at the forefront. This is our first time that we are awarding credit point for the nurses’ training, so we are working with sponsors for next year to help in the end quality care.  According to her, “You don’t have to wait till the end. It begins from stage one and this is one of the things we are missing out in cancer treatment in Nigeria. When some patients are diagnosed, they run away and report when it’s late, that is at stage 4 and we give them the care they want.”
   
On the theme: “Holistic Nursing in Cancer Care: An Interdisciplinary Approach, Principal/Deputy Director, Nursing, School of Nursing, University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan, Niyi Makinde said nurses remained integral to availing any patient complete care, which involves healing the mind, body and soul. Makinde, who advised nurses to be customer-centric in healthcare delivery, said they were not to force information or decisions on patients.
    
He added that early diagnosis, prompt treatment, social support, and the hope of living were necessary for a cancer patient’s survival.
   
He identified inadequate manpower development, lack of training and retraining to uplift professional skills as reasons why there are few holistic nurses.
   
“Holistic nurses recognise the mental/emotional state of patients. This aspect of nursing should be enshrined in the curricula to boost the nation’s health care delivery. Nurses are good people and should be addressed that way. It is, however, not justifiable for a nurse on duty to be emotional. We also need to educate the society more on this issue,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .