Flenjo crooner Lil Kesh teamed up with former record label boss Olamide in a new song ‘Logo Benz.’ While the two are known for their hits or what Olamide prefers to describe as back to back hits, this new song does not seem to settle well with lovers of music. While the Nigerian music scene is filled with artistes with little or no regard for the art or people with lyrical content or low value, the two who are known to have properly represented the streets for a long time have dropped to an all time low with this heat. Now, herein lies the problem, the intro in Logo Benz is a plea to Jesus to bless them with money to buy Benz but “If money no enter i go do blood money.” Read More: Lil Kesh, Olamide Team Up In ‘Logo Benz’ Recall that Olamide’s Science Student was banned by the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) because it encouraged the use of drugs which Olamide explained was contrary to it. We wonder what his response to the lyrics will be but this time. In the meantime, Nigerians are not having it. Mazi Chima Amadi Ph.D @AMADICHIMA- If this was a country where “normal” people occupy, by now Olamide and Lil Kesh would have felt the brunt of antagonizing and attacking the fabrics of society through their songs. Within 24 hours of the release of the LEGO Benz song, virtually all the companies endorsing them DaddyMO   ♠ @officialdaddymo- Why is the new Lil Kesh and Olamide song promoting/glorifying ritual killings/blood money?? Why must you use terrible lyrics like this?? “If money no enter i go do blood money”
There needs to be a line that you can’t cross when it comes to lyrics in music. This is one of them. FAVOUR ONYEOZIRI (GCFR) @Rouvafe- If you believe no one should criticize Olamide and Lil Kesh because some other Artistes glorified internet fraud and got away with it in the past, then you need your brain examined by a qualified psychiatrist. Isima Odeh @IsimaOdeh- This Olamide and Lil Kesh song is painful to listen to. A song that glorifies rituals, internet fraud and blood money. What does “If money no enter, I go do blood money” mean? That song will get across to millions of youth, that’s the worst part. There is no excuse for this. Some Nigerians believe we are just being hypocritical IG: Omope Abdul Azeez @Iam_Abdulaxis- Suddenly, Nigerians are woke. Falz spoke against Yahoo boys & praising illegal acts sometimes ago & majority came for him and labeled him a privileged child. Lil kesh & Olamide just remixed what 9ice said sometimes ago which was glorifying blood money. It’s now a norm. @JajaPhD- Music is usually a reflection of the society from which it originates at the time it is produced.
So, Olamide and Lil Kesh are just producing music that reflect our society at this point in time just as Fela’s music in Fela’s time.