It’s that time of the year where there are a lot of weddings, birthday celebrations and end of the year Christmas parties to attend. You’ve got the perfect outfit to lift your confidence as you walk into the venue; the perfect hair that bounces when you spin on that 360 degrees camera; but you also need the perfect makeup look to match your outfit. So, to help you decide what look to go for; here are six makeup ideas to get you in the Christmas spirit; A model wearing the soft and dewy look. Photo: Shakara square This makeup look redefines what it means to look flawless. The trick is to apply liquid foundation using light soft strokes on well-moisturised skin (use KIEHL’S Ultra-facial oil-free gel cream for normal to oily skin) to give your face that soft and dewy look. Model wearing the pink sensation look. Photo: Pinterest Feeling like a princess out of a holiday movie? Then go for pink. Try the Fenty Beauty eyeshadow palette and pair with Fenty beauty Mademoiselle Plush Matte Lipstick in “Candy Venom” to achieve this look. Janelle Monae wearing a red lipstick. Photo: Los Angeles Times A few things are as timeless as classic red lips. These are makeup look women of all ages can wear and is easily the look to go for whenever you want to show up looking glamorously dressed up. The classic red lips look as seen on Ghanaian actress, Lydia Forson which she paired with soft gold eyes, use Mac cosmetics Ruby Woo lipstick and a Zaron Lip liner pencil in Stallion to achieve this classic red pout. Rihanna wearing the extra glow look. Photo: Maw today This is a Nigerian woman’s favourite party look which features a super contoured face and tons of face highlighter so no one misses that glow when the light hits your face. Layer your foundation with NYX illuminator Born to glow to achieve this extra glow look. A woman wearing the green eyed goddess look. Photo: Pinterest Go green with this Christmas inspired look and be sure to keep everyone staring at your eyes. Try this look by makeup artist Radiez by Eve on Nigerian actress-Rita Dominic. A lady wearing the sultry look. Photo: Youtube On the day when you feel like walking into a party and making sure everyone stops and stares; this is the makeup look, you want to go for. Complete your outfit with dark smokey eyes paired with nude lips.