 Humblesmith  Asides being home to most leading entertainers not minding their tribe or religion, Eko, as it’s widely known, has seen it all when it comes to showbiz. So, when you hear ‘Eko for show’, it’s not just hype; it’s a reality that has successfully launched Nigeria into the world of entertainment. As part of efforts to solidify its leadership of the showbiz industry, as well as create an atmosphere of fun and excitement for Lagosians and tourists alike during the yuletide, the Lagos State Government, in 2012, conceived The Lagos Countdown, which is now known as One Lagos Fiesta. Initially hosted only at the Lagos Bar Beach, the event traditionally begins around December 7 through January 1 of the New Year. The idea is to drive up tourism in the city and make an event similar to New Year’s events in New York, Sydney and other major cities. Activities for the countdown typically include fireworks, live music concerts and karaoke, with leading A-list Nigerian artistes on the bill. By 2015 when the project was renamed One Lagos Fiesta, it took a new dimension, with additional venues to cater for every Lagosian, who wish to be part of the groove. So, unlike the days when it was strictly a Victoria Island affair, One Lagos Fiesta ensures people in other locations such as Agege, Badagry, Ikorodu and Epe get a feel of the groove that parades almost all leading stars in the country’s music industry. This year’s edition of the fiesta, which will commence on the December 24, will take place simultaneously at five different venues of Agege Stadium Agege, Barbeach, Epe, Ikorodu, Badagry and Victoria Island, culminating in a grand finale at Eko Atlantic City. The idea is to transform the five key districts within Lagos State into tourist and holiday destinations for eight days of fun and beyond as millions of people celebrate the holiday season across the megacity. Among artiste on parade for the show this year are Wizkid, Adewale Ayuba, Olamide, Humblesmith, Pasuma, Davido and Teni. Others include Muma Gee, Salawa Abeni, King Sunny Ade, Mr P, Mr Real, Blacky, Slimcase, Saheed Osupa and others. Speaking at a media briefing held recently to herald the concert, which was created to foster an atmosphere of commerce and culture, togetherness and happiness among the people of Lagos State, the State Commissioner of Tourism, Arts And Culture Mr Steve Ayorinde described the eight-day fiesta as the biggest entertainment brand, which provides visitors with a platform to have fun for free. Besides, One Lagos Fiesta is back with a twist, which offers a raffle draw game, as the winner will get to walk away brand new car by GAC motors. However, unlike ordinary raffle draws, the One Lagos Fiesta raffle is open only to residents of Lagos State, who are 18 years old and older, and who have a permanent voter’s card (PVC). “The event, without doubt, has become the biggest end-of-the-year entertainment brand in Africa as it provides an unparallel platform for residents and visitors, both old and young, to relax and enjoy themselves in a secured environment. As a Government, we are encouraged by the noticeable achievements recorded as a result of hosting this event and we are taking advantage of this year’s edition to fete millions of Lagosians, who have supported this initiative running for the 4th consecutive year.” Ayorinded noted that One Lagos Fiesta draws parallel with other international cross over events in the world especially in the countdown night of December 31, and with the unique features associated with the fiesta, it is anticipated to attract over 2million direct participants across the State and over 90million viewers via live television and live streaming on social media. “As you may be aware, Lagos prides itself as the economic and socio-cultural hub of Africa with vibrant expression of its art. Therefore, it has always been the tradition of this administration to use this instrument as springboard to drive development and market the State’s potentials to domestic and foreign investors who will contribute meaningfully towards making Lagos Africa’s model megacity.” He continued: “In this direction, there are some reputable private organisations that share the same vision and support us in this enviable drive. The State Government believes that the platform has and will continue to engender economic development, empowerment of the people and promote tourism. This is exemplified by the fact that besides entertainment, OLF offers upcoming artistes and tradesmen ample opportunity to showcase their talents and market their products, which fits into the agenda of the Akinwunmi Ambode administration.” Festivities for the One Lagos Fiesta 2018 include Kiddies Corner (This will run from 12.00p.m to 6.00p.m with various activities like bouncing Castle, Rodeo Bull, Carrousels, etc.), cultural performances, stage plays and talent hunt (Lagos Grows Talent). “This has always been an important segment of the fiesta. It is a grassroot competition, which provides a platform for youths to compete using their talents in the areas of music, dance, comedy and other creative activities. The objective is to discover, celebrate and reward budding talents amongst the youth in the State,” Ayorinded said. With the theme, A December To Remember – A Celebration of the People, One Lagos Fiesta is not just about celebrating the end of one year; it is also a period filled with exciting activities for everyone. It is also a hub for children and adults, who want top-notch entertainment. There will be live music concert, which will feature trending DJs and MCs and performances by popular Nigerian artistes and musicians. Speaking on the raffle draw, which is a new addition to the event, Ayorinde explained, “This year’s edition will witness the introduction of a raffle draw for the purpose of winning a brand new saloon car, courtesy of one of our partners, CIG Motors. The competition is open to only residents of Lagos State who are up to 18 years of age and are in possession of a valid Permanent Voter’s Card PVC. Entries opened on Thursday, December 6 and close on Wednesday, December 26, 2018. Entries will be submitted strictly online through the OLF website. The winner is expected to emerge through a raffle draw, which will be conducted on December 31, 2018, at Eko Atlantic City venue. There are other consolation prizes to be won,” he said. He thanked both past and current major sponsors of the event, who have lent their financial assistance to ensure that the programme continues to run. “I want to thank all the artistes, vendors, technical partners and participants generally. In particular, our appreciation goes to our long-standing partners, Nigerian Breweries PLC, Pepsi, Glo, Dangote Group, GTBank, JMI, XEnergy, Eko Atlantic and the new entrants, CIG Motors. We cannot thank you enough. I wish to use this opportunity to encourage Lagosians and visitors to explore and experience the fiesta and savour the attractions it brings whilst enjoying the fun that is available in all the venues of the event.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .