 Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Jide Idris (left); Governor Akinwunmi Ambode; All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Lagos, Babajide Sanwo-Olu; and Oba of Lagos, Rilwan Akiolu, during the official launch of the state’s health insurance scheme in Lagos….  Idris said the design of the benefit package, reviews of the common health challenges and poor health indices, especially those centred on both maternal and child mortality and morbidity were carried out to understand the needs of the state’s population and informed the development of the benefit package. He said this is in a bid to expand access to healthcare services in the state and ensure that people living in the state, regardless of their socio-economic status, achieve their full potential. “The poor and vulnerable individuals will be identified through a transparent and scientific means testing exercise which will be carries out periodically. Therefore, the number of lives and the productivity lost to illness will be significantly reduced,” he said. The General Manager, Lagos State Health Management Agency (LASHMA), Dr Peju Adenusi said the scheme, which was duly signed into law in June 2015 by the Lagos State House of Assembly is a mandatory health insurance program for all residents of the state and will be implemented by the Agency, which she said is responsible for overseeing the implementation of policies, administration of appropriate regulations and guidelines of the scheme. She maintained that the health insurance scheme would not only improve the overall health indices but also strengthen the healthcare delivery system and provide financial risk protection against catastrophic and impoverishing healthcare expenditure for all residents of Lagos state adding that the scheme is the right strategy towards achieving universal health coverage. This, she said will be achieved in collaboration with stakeholders such as Health Insurance agents, healthcare providers drawn from public and private sectors and the people of the State. The Country Director, Pharmaccess Foundation, Njide Ndili said the foundation collaborated with the state government to implement the “Access to Finance Initiative”, which is in phases to ensure that providers are able to access low interest loans to facilitate the revitalization of the state’s primary healthcare facilities, thus expanding access to quality care to the people. Speaking on behalf of the Health Maintenance Organisations (HMOs), the Chief Executive Officer, Hygeia HMO Obinna Abajue said the health organisations would ensure mobilization of people for registration and enrolment needed so that every resident of the state would get access to affordable and quality healthcare without financial risk as well as ensure sustainability of the scheme. Meanwhile,   Health Care Providers Association of Nigeria (HCPAN) have said that mandatory health insurance and decentralised healthcare system are essential for the country to attain Universal Health Coverage (UHC).They made the remarks during its 14th annual general meeting/scientific conference stressing that a well designed healthcare insurance scheme will facilitate fair financing of healthcare cost, pooling and judicious utilization, risk protection and cost burden prior to ill health of an individual.  He added: “We Healthcare Providers suggest that flagship programmes such as Community Based Social Health Insurance Programme (CBSHIP) and Voluntary Contributors Social Health Insurance Programme (VCSHIP) which can be spread faster by electronical means, a form of mobile health insurance. Public and Private Primary School Health Insurance Programme and State Health Insurance programme will equally accelerate the numbers of Nigerians covered by the Health Insurance Scheme.”Sanda noted that a corrupt free nation will achieve UHC within a short while if money allocated for health is spent truly on health.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .