 Lawmaker representing Ogun East in the Senate, Buruji Kashamu  This was disclosed in a statement by Kashamu’s media aide, Austin Oniyokor. “The attention of the Kashamu/Abati Campaign Organisation has been drawn to the surreptitious moves being made by some lawless members of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to present the flag for the Ogun State PDP governorship ticket to an impostor through the back door,” Oniyokor said. On Wednesday, the Supreme Court dismissed an appeal by the Uche Secondus-led National Working Committee of the PDP, seeking to suspend a Federal High Court decision which recognised the Buruji Kashamu-led faction of the party. With the latest decision, Kashamu remains the party’s flag bearer, until any further decision is made by the higher courts. Kashamu, therefore, urged “genuine national leaders of PDP” to direct the party to “abide by valid and subsisting court judgments”, in an attempt to avoid “more havoc to the party and set Ogun State on fire.” Kashamu in his statement alleged that “the desperate elements within the NWC and their collaborators on Thursday stalled the presentation of the party’s flags to the governorship candidates from Lagos, Ogun and Oyo states at the Ibadan venue of the South-West zonal rally, as it is usually the practice at such rallies.” He said “retrogressive” members have “hatched a fresh plot to present the party’s flag to the governorship candidates from Lagos and Oyo states in Abuja tomorrow (Friday, 7th December, 2018), including an impostor from Ogun State known as Ladi Adebutu.” He maintained that “the presentation of flag will not reverse the valid and subsisting court judgments and pronouncements in our candidates’ favour – from the High Court to the Supreme Court.” “It will also not make the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to accept, process and publish the impostors’ names.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .