Notable boxers from Ghana, Senegal, Democratic Republic of Congo, Nigeria and others would be storming the country for a boxing championship tagged: ‘Warriors of Africa’ slated to hold at the Indoor Sports Hall of Nnamdi Azikwe Stadium in Enugu, Enugu State on December 30th by 12 noon. The championship, which will feature over 10 bouts, is being organised by the Stella Florence Promotions in conjunction with Raph Kedos Worldwide Promotions and the Enugu State Ministry of Youths & Sports. According to the organisers, the main bout of the day would be the WPBF African championship challenge between Nigeria’s Great Jude Ilo and James Williams from DRC. Speaking at the signing ceremony of the title bouts in Lagos at the weekend, Stella Florence, said she decided to engage in promoting boxing to help develop the sport in the country. She added that her organisation would also be collaborating with the former vice president of the country and PDP’s flagbearer in the fourth coming general elections, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar to make the championship a more exciting one. “I decided to go into promoting boxing as a youth to create more awareness of the sport. Nigeria has the potentials to be the best in boxing if adequate measures are put in place to give the boxers platforms to exhibit their skills, which will in turn attract the younger ones that are eager to be boxers. “We are starting off in Enugu because the government has given us the nod to host the event with necessary assistance given. The boxing championship would also take place in Abuja, Port Harcourt. We intend to cover the whole of Nigeria in future. At the event, their would be a national title fight, called Atiku’s belt and eight exhibition bouts.” she said. Appearing in a title fight, Ilo noted that he is working hard to beat his DRC opponent to show to the world that Nigeria is still a force to reckon with in boxing. He stated that boxing has started gaining its ground in the country based on the fact that more promoters are getting into the sport.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .