 [FILE PHOTO] Buhari  In a swift reaction, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) claimed that it was aware of the dissention by some All Progressives Congress (APC) leaders over President Muhammadu Buhari’s unilateral listing of individuals into his campaign council, as announced by his media aide, without recourse to the selection process of the party leadership. “This further shows the dictatorial tendencies of the Buhari Presidency and his arrogant disdain for constituted authority,” it added. The Presidency had in a statement by Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, said both Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and the National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole, are to serve as Deputy Chairmen of the Council. Other members spread across the country include Vice Chairman (North) Senator George Akume, and Vice Chairman (South) Senator Ken Nnamani. The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, is to serve as Director General of the Campaign Team, with Senator A.O. Mamora (Operations) and Waziri Bulama (Coordination) as his deputies. Both the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, and Dele Alake are to serve as Secretary of the Council. Also appointed on the special advisory committee were business moguls, Aliko Dangote, and Femi Otedola. Aside Dangote and Otedola, other members of the advisory committee to the president are the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo who is also one of the Vice Chairmen of the campaign council, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the Senate leader, Ahmed Lawan, the House of Representatives leader, Femi Gbajabiamila and the APC national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. The APC chairman also serves as one of the Deputy Chairmen of the campaign council. For zonal representation, Senator George Akume is appointed as Vice Chairman, North while former Senate President, Ken Nnamani is the Vice Chairman, South. Senator Olorunimbe Mamora is named as the deputy Director-General, Operations, Arch. Waziri Bulama, Deputy Director General, Coordination, Adamu Adamu and Dele Alake will serve as secretaries. The zonal directors are Senator Aliyu M. Wamakko, North West, Senator Muh’d Ali Ndume, North East, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, North Central, Sola Oke, (SAN), South West, Sharon Ikeazor, South East and Senator Godswill Akpabio for South-South. Dr. Mahmoud Mohammed leads the Buhari Support Groups, while Festus Keyamo is the Director, Strategic Communications. Deputy Director is Abike Dabiri-Erewa, Director, Contact & Mobilization is Hadiza Bala Usman, Victor Eboigre, Deputy Director, South; Senator Bashir Nalado, Deputy Director, North and Babatunde Raji Fashola, Director, Election Planning & Monitoring. Others are Baba Kura Abba Jato, Deputy Director I, Chief Emami Ayiri, Deputy Director II, Dr. Pius Odubu, Director, Logistics, Senator Umanah Umanah, Deputy Director, and Nasiru Danu, Deputy Director II, Abdulrahman Oba, Director, Policy Research & Strategy and Prof. A.K. Usman, Deputy Director. The Director, Youth Mobilization is Tony Nwoye, assisted by the APC Youth Leader Sadiq; Deputy Director North, Ismaeel Ahmed; Deputy Director South, Jasper Azuatalam; Director, Admin- Onari Brown; Deputy Director I, Chris Hassan; Deputy Director II, Abubakar Magaji Gasau, while Women Mobilization Director is the Woman Leader Salamatu Baiwa and Binta Mu’azu, Deputy Director North. Deputy Director South is Adejoke Orelope Adefulire, with the Minister of Interiors Gen. Abdulraman Dambazzau, serves as the director for security. The Deputy Directors are Brigadier General Gambo and Mr. U. Ukoma, Director Legal is Emeka Ngige, Deputy Director- Prof. Maman Lawan Yusufari, Director Field Operations, Mallam Nuhu Ribadu, Director Finance, Wale Edun and Alhaji Adamu Fadan as Deputy Director. Campaign Council members are Chief Bisi Akande, Chief John Oyegun, Senator Ita Enang, all APC serving senators, all APC serving and former governors, all APC members of the House of Representatives, all members of the National Working Committee of the APC and all zonal Women leaders. APC governors are to serve as State Coordinators in their respective states while gubernatorial candidates in non- APC states will serve as State Coordinators in their respective states. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .