Dasuki The former National Security Adviser, Col. Sambo Dasuki (rtd), has again filed an application seeking indefinite suspension of his trial until the Federal Government obeys orders of courts that granted him bail. The trial was, however, stalled yesterday due to an application filed by Adeola Adedipe on behalf of Dasuki. In the application dated December 10, 2018, Dasuki prayed the court for an order to adjourn his trial sine die pending compliance by the complainant with the court’s judgment delivered by Justice Ijeoma Ojukwu on July 2, 2018 in suit No. FHC/ABJ/CS/263/2018 between Col. Dasuki and the Director-General of State Security Services (SSS) and two others. Dasuki also asked the court to make an order directing the lead counsel for the complainant, Oladipo Okpeseyi (SAN), to produce and submit to the court the direction of the Attorney-General of the Federation on the said judgment. Adedipe submitted that the trial could not continue because of the application challenging the competence of the prosecution counsel, Oladipupo Okpeseyi (SAN), to continue with the trial. Okpeseyi told the court that even though he was served with the defendant’s application in court, it would still not affect the already slated definite hearing because the motion was not ripe for hearing. The prosecution counsel argued that the application was premature and could not be the basis for the court to discharge the scheduled hearing. In a ruling, Justice Mohammed admitted that it was correct to say that the matter was adjourned for definite hearing as well as correct to say that the defendant’s application was not ripe for hearing. He, however, held that if he continues to hear the matter, it then means that the court had automatically heard and rejected the application. Consequently, the court fixed January 9, 2019 for hearing of Dasuki’s application. The court in the said judgment had directed an immediate release of the defendant. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .