 Nigeria’s Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo  Apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has described as unfortunate comments credited to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo that the presidency would go to the south west in 2023. The deputy national publicity secretary, Chucks Ibegbu, warned of the consequences of taking Ndigbo as fools in the Nigerian project. Osinbajo recently joined forces with the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, to say that the success of President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2019 elections was the only way the south west could secure the presidency in 2023. Disclosing that it would meet in January to review the country’s political situation and adopt a position against the coming elections, Ohanaeze said that the Igbo remained an integral part of Project Nigeria and as such should be treated with respect. The statement called on Ndigbo in various parts of the country to use the yuletide to show love and shun ostentation of any type.But the director-general of Voice of Nigeria (VON), Osita Okechukwu, insisted that Osinbajo’s comment was a wake-up call for Ndigbo to think out of the box and vote Buhari to stand a chance of tasting the presidency after him in 2023. Okechukwu told reporters in Enugu yesterday: “It is a wake-up-call for Ndigbo in the true sense of the word that equity, natural justice and good conscience are the advantages on our side; for the south east is the only geopolitical zone in the southern belt that has not presided over Nigeria since 1999. “A president of Nigeria of Igbo extraction in 2023 is a win-win scenario, and a golden opportunity for Ndigbo to end the vexatious issue of marginalisation and create a sense of belonging in the Nigerian family. “We appeal to Ndigbo to hearken to this clarion call, as all we need is to vote for President Buhari, so as to reinforce the equity, natural justice and good conscience which is on our side. Our vote for Buhari will engender the support of his mass followers in the northern belt, for Buhari has a bank of 10 million to 12 million voters, which is a big arsenal.” According to him, Buhari’s anti-corruption crusade has helped reduce the rate of looting in public offices, stressing that those in doubt of the development are either not doing business with government ministries or economical with the truth. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .