So many destinations competed for our attention this year and travel trends show that our travel decisions are influenced by social media, with so many people visiting places based on the photos shared online. Here are top seven travel destinations of 2018. Photo: Wikipedia Bali, Indonesia was a favourite go-to spot in 2018. The lush greenery, rice fields, sacred temples, floating breakfast concept and beautiful scenery made it an attractive choice for many tourists all over the world. If there was ever a country that depicts “living your best life”, Bali is the one. Le Jardin Marjorelle. Marrakech Photo Jessica Ufuoma @theufuoma This year, travellers continued to flock into North Africa’s popular gem—Morocco and they stopped at Marrakech. From colourful souks to exquisitely designed architecture and cosy riad homes, Marrakech continues to resonate with travellers from all over the world. Bo-kaap, Cape Town. Photo: Unsplash More and more people are making their way into African countries and South Africa has been one of the most favoured destinations. The beautiful city of Cape Town attracted so many visitors this year as it offers so much for travellers to enjoy and experience. Wine lovers? Check. Nature lovers? Check. Road trip lovers? Check. Dubai. Photo: vietnamdhtravel Everyone who has visited Dubai comes back to say how much of a great time they had, including repeat visitors. There’s not a shortage of things to do in Dubai, no matter how many times you visit. You can visit the world’s tallest building—Burj Khalifa and explore have a buggy ride in the sand dunes, all in one trip. Travellers continued to love Dubai in 2018. Underwater statues in Cancun. Photo: destinationdevelopmentwatch A party city with beautiful beaches, awesome views, great live music, good food and good vibes? You’re certainly talking about Cancun! Cancun is a dream come through for travellers who want a slice of everything—adventure, relaxation, food, and scenery. Long Island City, New York. Photo: Wikipedia This list will be incomplete without mentioning the Big Apple and powerhouse that is New York City. Bright lights, buzzing crowd, phenomenal energy, fashion, music, and big dreams. New York City continues to attract tourists year on year and 2018 was no exception. Private Beach In Thailand. Photo: YOLO FILMS Not much needs to be said about why Bangkok, Thailand steals the heart of travellers year in year out. According to The Independent, Bangkok is the most visited city in the world. Bangkok is an affordable destination that offers great food, temples, and rich cultural experience. 2019 will be a year full of travel adventures.