 President Muhammadu Buhari  The wailers have not found any proof of these, thus they are busy trying to paint Buhari black or even wishing him dead at all cost. As a child of destiny and the fact being stark that death does not consider age, it is our wish and prayers that the wailers live by force to see the transformation of Nigeria under Buhari or they meet their ancestors in their different ages so that peace and progress continue to reign in Nigeria.  
 
The last matter that baffles me of the indirection of the opposition is the WAEC sage. This matter had been laid to rest after the 2015 general elections. Why is it coming up now that Buhari is standing for reelection in 2019? Nigerians can now see the hypocrisy in the propagandists of this worthless claim. They are behaving like the drowning person who will clinch at anything for survival. This saga has been taken too far that it attempts to dent on the integrity of the Nigerian Army where Buhari rose to the high military rank of a general and the US War College which Buhari attended.  A letter dated June 13 1980 and addressed to then Chief of Defense Staff, General Alani Akinrinade by the Commandant of the War College, Major-General DeWitt C. Smith Jr., described Buhari as a most distinguished International Fellow, a man of extraordinary aptitude who demonstrated a broad knowledge of current international problems. His keen interest, sense of responsibility and solid grasp of the strategic implications of the important global issues marked him as a key member of any student seminar. In fact, he was at his best in the give and take environment of our seminar group discussions where students are encouraged to express their views even though they differ from the group consensus. This is the man, the Nigerian wailers are frustrating themselves to undo.
 
How Buhari came into power as a military ruler when Nigeria was being mortgaged shows he is a child of destiny. How he was removed when he was on pilgrimage worshipping his Lord in Makkah depicts God’s overpowering destiny for him. How he came to power in 2015 after winning elections for three consecutive times but denied because the power that was by then was complicated and desperate as ever, portrays him as a child of destiny waiting for God’s Time which is the best. All attempts to kill him showcase the Biblical episodes of the efforts of evil men to harm a child protected by destiny. And how he will continue to preside over Nigeria to complete the divine mission of repairing Nigeria till 2023 by the will of God Almighty, will baffle his enemies because he chose to trust God and God is with the trustworthy. A child of destiny is always favoured even in times of hardship and presumed failure.
Ajah is an advocate of humanity, peace and good governance, wrote from Abuja.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .