 Kerosene  The new Caretaker Committee Chairman of the body in the state, Elder Edet Umana said the ban was necessary considering the incessant cases of kerosene explosion at homes, causing lost of lives and property. Umana said: “I want to warn all our members that nobody should put kerosene (DPK) in a surface tank outside the filling stations. I want to know the area this problem is coming from so I can block it. I want the public to know that any kerosene selling outside filling stations and in surface tanks is not IPMAN product. “Any filling station that has any incident about the DPK they are selling to customers, maybe a fire, the filling station is going to have problems with IPMAN. That is the way I am coming in. I want the public to know that if you buy kerosene in any surface tank, it is your own business. But if you buy in a filling station belonging to IPMAN, let me know the person. I don’t have any business with the surface tanks. Mine is for the filling stations.” According to him, following the December 14 Supreme Court judgement, which confirm Elder Chinedu Okonkwo as the authentic National President of IPMAN in an appeal brought by Chief Obasi Lawson against Okonkwo and 10 others, the so called executive in the state led by Mr. Lawrence Agim is illegal. He stated that the Okonkwo led national executive had earlier dissolved the Agim led executive and put in place a caretaker committee headed by him, hence, “the law enforcement agents should go out and arrest and prosecute these persons who are impersonating. All of us know that the law has to take effect any time any day. Reacting to the judgement, Okonkwo said “those people going against the Supreme Court judgement are not my members but just miscreants. If they were to be members, they will not contest the position of the law, which is very obvious, were the Supreme Court has finally brought to an end the tussle. So what are they agitating for again, the ruling is very clear and it says the appeal lacks credit and its incompetent. My preliminary objection was sustained, and N2million was awarded as cost against them. It is a straight forward matter.” On measures that may be taken against those flouting the Supreme Court judgement, Okonkwo said “there is law and order in the country and it will be reported to appropriate quarter for necessary action. Now we have one IPMAN under my leadership and my assurance is that we will work with all relevant agencies of government with a view to ensuring steady supply of this products. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .