 Some of the newly inducted associates of the Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors & Valuers (NIESV) .. in Lagos  President of NIESV, Mr. Rowland Agbonta gave the charge at the 2018 induction of 260 associates who were welcomed into the profession in Lagos.He said the induction is not about individual personality or gratification but the need to put the institution on a progressive path through adherence to core values of discipline and professionalism, which is the hallmark of real estate practice as, envisioned by its founding fathers. According to him, real estate sector holds the key to national, economic and social well being of Nigeria, hence, practitioners must strive to be properly mentored, maintained full loyalty to the profession and decorum in their conduct as individual conduct will affect totality of members. In a lecture on, “The need for professional ethics and conducts as standards for professionalism”, Gbenga Olaniyan, a fellow of the institution, advised the new members to provide high standard of service and act within their scope of competence.He stressed that one of the ways to prosper as practitioners is to use the tool of collaboration as a means to advance practice and carry out transactions in line with best practice. He observed that facility management is a component of real estate that practitioners need more visibility especially in location like Ikoyi where about 170 high-rise building are waiting to be managed according to a research. Speaking on capacity development, Olaniyan disclosed that the inductees must embrace Continuous Professional Development (CPD), attend trainings to improve mental capacity and to be able to speak like professionals before local and international clients. On their part, the Registrar, Estate Surveyors and Valuation Board of Nigeria (ESVARBON), Mr. Ifeanyi Uzonwanne and chairman of the occasion, Bola Onabadejo noted the increase in the number of inductees from what used to be 50/60 new entrants to two hundred and sixty shows that the profession is progressing. Uzonwanne, said estate surveyor and valuers as well as law are the professions noted for ancestral nobility, he enjoined practitioners to maintain the integrity.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .