 Smile office  The campaign tagged ‘Get into the groove this season’ is aimed at empowering individuals and families to purchase and use Smile’s affordable 4GLTE broadband internet to enjoy their smart TVs, portable tablets as well as voice and video calls. Stay connected to the people and activities they love doing online, watch videos, play games and more. With the campaign, potential customers will enjoy the offer by purchasing a SMiFi device for only N12, 000. The SMiFi device comes bundled with 10GB data in addition to FREE 10 minutes calls to all local networks, 100% data bonus for first 3 months and unlimited on-net calls. Existing customers on the network will also enjoy the FREE minutes by purchasing any 30 days AnyTime data plan with a minimum of 5GB. Commenting on the launch of the season’s campaign in Lagos, Lotanna Anajemba, head, Brand and Communications; emphasized the need for every Nigerian to stay connected to families and friends through voice and video calls by simply downloading and using the SmileApp, streaming and watching movies as well as sharing memorable moments. He explained further, that Smile will continue to innovate and provide offers that provides value to fulfil the telecommunications needs of the customers. The offer will be available through all Smile distribution channels including Retail Shops, Kiosks, Field Sales Representatives (FSRs), Independent dealer outlets and online. Smile was the first to launch VoLTE on its network and has continued with its innovation, having introduced SmileVoice, which is a free mobile app that enables customers with any Android or ios handsets (including those which are not VoLTE-enabled) to make SuperClear voice and video calls over Smile’s 4G LTE networks. Smile was also the first to introduce an unlimited offering, which enables SuperFast and SuperReliable data and SuperClear voice, all from one data plan.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .