 Chairman Lagos State Gymnastics, Moyo Ogunseinde (middle) with Team Lagos medallists at the 19th National Sports Festival in Abuja  The inauguration took place recently at the Molade Okoya-Thomas Indoor Sports Hall, Teslim Balogun Stadium, Surulere. Other board members include Charles Ogunwuyi (Vice Chairman), Abike Babarinde (Executive Secretary) , Funke Ade-Ojo, Zainab Giwa, Deola Idowu,  Ekundayo Decker, Head Coach – John Abiodun Oyewuwo as well as team coaches, Patrick Umoh Edem and Aluko Oladimeji. Upbeat Centre, a product of Uraga Real Estate, revolutionized the recreation space in Nigeria, impacting the lives of families and communities with an innovative alternative space to connect, promoting fun and fitness. “The appointment of the chairmen and members of the sports associations was based on the appointees’ passionate interest in sports and past contributions to sports development in Lagos State,’’ said Titi Oshodi – The Head, Public Relations, LSSC. Ogunseinde, a keen gymnastics enthusiast, whose love for the sport was driven by her kids, and the obvious benefits from gymnastics such as cognitive skills and improved self esteem, set up UPBEAT to extend her passion for gymnastics, and sports to the larger community. In February 2018, Upbeat Centre set up a gymnastics club, and held the maiden edition of the annual Trampoline Gymnastics Competition in October, 2018, which provided a platform for kids to showcase their skills with the aim to nurture the blooming talents of young gymnasts, so they can advance to represent Nigeria in national and international gymnastics competitions. Speaking on the appointment, Ogunseinde said: “It is an honor to be able to serve my state and furthermore to serve you through a field, which I am most passionate about. The dream is to create a gymnastics team in Lagos that will compete with other gymnasts at the Olympics. We have a good future ahead of us, and with the successes the association had in the past, we will bring our experience in the private sector to add lasting values to gymnastics in Lagos state.” Ogunseinde began her duties by supporting the Lagos gymnastics team who competed alongside 16 other states at the just concluded 19th National Sports Festival in Abuja. Team Lagos won two gold medals in the Best Team (Female) category, and in Uneven Bar (Female). In addition, Lagos got two bronze medals in Vault (Female) and Vault (Men) categories. Ogunseinde says she would make gymnastics one of the key pillars of sports in Lagos.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .