Some people secretly exhale into their cupped palms to sniff their breath to check if it smells. The bad news to some is that their breath stinks all the time they take this test. Some people are victims of halitosis, their breath smells so unpleasant that it affects people around them. Bad breath affects a lot of people apart from the stigma, it could be a sign of a serious disease or condition. But before you panic or use the occasional breath mint, here are reasons you have bad breath and remedies to combat it. This is a major reason for bad breath. It is important to brush the teeth and gaggle properly because when food particles are trapped in the teeth and gums, bacteria thrive in there to break them down and this leads to smelly breath.
To remedy this, use a fluoride tooth paste taking care to brush the teeth and do not forget to floss. Brush the tongue and the cheeks and gargle to ensure all particles are gotten rid of. A lady drinking coffee. Photo: Pinterest Some food are smelly and cause smelly breath too. Coffee, garlic, fish and other spicy foods release sulfides and sulfur smells like rotten eggs. Try using foods like lemon, apple vegetables like carrot that trigger saliva production which is important to cleanse the mouth. Water helps to quell bad breath as well. Sweets, Candy and Biscuits. Photo: Widescreen Wallpapaers A million bacteria throw a party when you eat lot of sweets, cakes and and food filled with sugar because this means that you are creating an environment for them to thrive and cause stinky breath. Dentists advice that f you have to eat anything sweet opt for chocolates because they melt easily and have less sugar. Low carb diet means eating a lot of protein and less carbs which forces to body to burn fat cells to get energy thereby driving the body into ketosis. This generates waste products called ketones through the urine and breath. Ketones do not have a pleasant smell, many compare the odor to rotten fruit. Try drinking water to cleanse the body of ketones. Use sugar free breath mints or gums. 