 (FILES) In this file photo taken on January 28, 2014 Cardiff City’s former Norwegian manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer looks on during the English Premier League football match between Manchester United and Cardiff City at Old Trafford in Manchester, northwest England. – Ole Gunnar Solskjaer was on December 19, 2018 named as Manchester United’s caretaker manager until the end of the 2018/19 season following the sacking of Jose Mourinho. Solskjaer will take charge of the first team with immediate effect and will remain in place while the club looks for a new full-time manager. (Photo by Andrew YATES / AFP) / RESTRICTED TO EDITORIAL USE. No use with unauthorized audio, video, data, fixture lists, club/league logos or ‘live’ services. Online in-match use limited to 75 images, no video emulation. No use in betting, games or single club/league/player publications. /  Solsjkaer will be seeking a third successive victory  when they host out of form Bournemouth on Sunday  since taking over following the sacking of Jose Mourinho earlier this month. Victory over Bournemouth would see Solskjaer become only the third United manager to win their first three matches. However, Shaw  who suffered more than most of the United players from Mourinho’s public criticism  told Sky Sports it is not the results that have transformed the mentality at Old Trafford but the manner of the wins over Cardiff and Huddersfield. “I think you can see from the outside how much he has changed things in such a short space of time,” said 23-year-old Shaw. “He is just a really positive manager, he knows what the club needs and also what the fans want in the way we are playing. “He’s bringing that attacking, quick play back to Old Trafford. I’m sure the fans are going to appreciate that as much as we (the players) do.” Shaw, who has regained his first team place after losing favour with Mourinho, said he had no idea former United favourite Solskjaer was going to be named caretaker manager. “The truth? My girlfriend told me,” said Shaw. “I woke up in the morning and had a shower and she ran out of the room and told me.”I did not have a clue, I didn’t look at my phone or anything. That’s how I found out… from my girlfriend.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .