NAF medical practitioner attending to one of the beneficiaries As part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), and to give back to the society where it operates from, the Nigeria Air Force (NAF) 651 Base Service Group, Ikeja, Lagos State, recently organised a free diabetes, obesity and hypertension screening among other health services for members of Oshodi Community. The Air Force Group also engaged in environmental sanitation exercise around the community, where it helped to rid the area of dirt and ensure that the environment is clean and devoid of infections. Over 200 members of Nigeria Air Force participated in the exercise, which which started at 8:00am and lasted till mid-day. Speaking on the rationale behind the initiatives, Commander of the Air Force group, Air Commodore Sunday Makinde said: “We decided to organise the medical outreach and environmental sanitation exercise because sanitation and medical screening go hand-in-hand, and we have given out drugs to those with minor ailments, while those with severe medical conditions were directed to our hospital for proper treatment. These events hold yearly and are meant to promote service delivery in the society. “There are many that have one medical condition or the other, but are not aware that such is plaguing their bodies. So after we’ve made the diagnosis, we also advise them to avoid factors that predispose them to the conditions, as well as, find time to relax because too much stress is not good for the body, while making out time to relax help to reduce high blood pressure. “In the area of sanitation, the mission of the Nigeria Air Force is to help in making life more meaningful to other Nigerians, through ridding the environment of dirt. Even in the North East part of the country, we also organise sanitation and medical outreaches there in order to put smiles on the faces of people that are there. Chairman, Oshodi/Isolo Local Council, Bolaji Muse-Ariyoh commended the Nigeria Air Force for contributing its quota to ensure the people of Oshodi Community live a healthy life.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .