 Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode  Embarking on an extensive search for raw talents in music, drama, comedy, contouring, instrumentation, sports and other personal endeavors, the team traverse the length and breadth of Lagos starting from the deepest parts to the city; Ikorodu, Epe, Agege, Abule-Egba, Ikeja, Lagos Island, Badagry and other Lagos environ were combed for talents while rewarding winners with opportunities to shine on live TV, performances, millions of naira and support from the state government. No doubt, talent discovery remains one of the legacies his government will be leaving behind. Many had thought that 2018 would be different seeing that the Governor will not be returning in 2019, but he has doused these doubts when he announced that the initiative will return this year. Thousands of youths from Badagry, Ikorodu, Lagos Island, Ikeja, and other environs have been flocking the different audition centers just to be part of the government largesse. Governor Akinwunmi Ambode may not have spent eight years in government, but he will surely bequeath to us a state with more rewarded talents than he met. In 2018, the first prize winner from Lagos Grows Talents will go home with 1 Million Naira, the second prize will go home with 500 Thousand Naira and the third winner will take home N250 000. Heavyweights such as Sotayo Sobola, Sound Sultan, Yomi Fash-Lanso, Caroline Danjuma, Bimbo Thomas, Adunni Ade, Hope Bonike, DOyin Kukoyi, Alariwo, and others were drafted as judges across the audition centers. Across the audition centers, it is safe to say that the judges and contestants witnessed more than what they bargained for because they were absolutely wowed by the talents and creativity of young Nigerians. Not only were there singing, dancing and comedy, but there was also body stunts, wordplay, drawing and painting, fire stunts, poetry and others. Some of the Judges were also as fun and interactive as they could be with Caroline Danjuma acting as a hype lady during the auditions. Some other judges joined the contestants during their performances by dancing with them, laughing and encouraging them. In less than four years, Lagos has become the undisputable discovery and management hub of talents in young people, all thanks to the policies and initiatives of the Governor who has consistently maintained that he believes strongly in the entertainment and culture potentials of the state. He has unequivocally stated that he sees the youths as creator and nurturer of the talents that it takes for Lagos to take the world by storm.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .