 Ify Newthings  Ify is one of Nigeria’s leading gospel artistes from the Southeast. She was introduced to music at the early stage of her life as her mother is a good singer and still sings till date. “If you listen to her even now at her age you will be amazed at her voice. She loves singing and dancing. I will say I took after her in singing. Though she started out as a member of her church choir, where she was doing praise and worship but upon gaining admission into the university, she joined the school fellowship, where she was became part and the leader of the worship team. According to the Ebonyi State University trained Economist, she didn’t plan to be a music minister considering her educational background. “My plan was to get a job in the bank or any big financial firm, and make the money. But as I progress in life, God began to open my eyes to my purpose. Every individual has a purpose in life and until you find yours, you will never be fulfilled. When you find yours, you find fulfillment because that is God’s design for you,” she said. Ify explained that after her school, she got married and joined her husband in Lagos and that was how the journey into gospel music ministration started. In 2009, she launched her musical instrument, and 2012 she dropped her first album titled New Things. She followed up with The Lord Settled The Matter in 2014. She recently released the visuals for the record, and accompanied it with a new audio titled, Wonderful God. “The first album was titled New Things because God promised to new things in my life. Before then, God have been speaking to me but I didn’t actually call it any thing. One day I woke and said no, and like said, I don’t think I can find fulfilment doing any other thing because if I had done any other thing I would not be fulfilled and happy. “I’m always happy, as matter of fact, my joy knows no bound when I’m praising God because I praise him with everything that is inside me; everything that he has made me of… my totality worship God,” she added. Asked what inspires the title or theme of her album, Ify said: “When I sing a song and want to title it, I usually pray for God’s direction. I don’t just pick a title; I go deep in prayer to ask God what he wants me to title the song. “Gospel music is about using song to convey your personal story. There must be a belief, message behind what you sing. If you look at the albums from New Things to Settle The Matter and the recently released Wonderful God, it has been a journey of praises, acknowledgement of the wonders of God for what he has done so far, what is doing and greater things he would do in the future,” Ify stated. She continues: ‘There is a lot within the music that anyone can identify with: themes of love, or peace, or wanting to be a better person. But don’t fake it; people can usually tell.” Ify notes that has been a significant improvement in the quality of gospel music in Nigeria over the years. However, she believes that more needs to be done to push the frontiers of the genre of music. “The support for gospel music has increased, but it is pretty difficult to record a good song, not because you don’t have the talent, but finance and marketing challenges has been a limiting factor for many gospel minister. For me it has been God, who called me into ministry and my husband have been of tremendous support to my music career.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .