Liverpool’s Egyptian midfielder Mohamed Salah celebrates with teammates after scoring the opening goal of the English Premier League football match between Liverpool and Fulham at Anfield in Liverpool, north west England on November 11, 2018. (Photo by Geoff CADDICK / AFP) / Facts only: Liverpool have not defeated Manchester United in five games Klopp’s army is a wrecking ball, the army of locusts that consumes all before them. Admittedly, they are an exhilarating watch, right from their goalkeeper to Klopp himself. Manchester United on the other hand, are at best enigmatic. At least, for the conflicting soundbites, conspiracy theories, Paul Pogba and yeah, Jose Mourinho. The Portuguese manager has tried against all odds to get Manchester United to 6th, 24 points behind Liverpool after 16 games. The team is fighting to finish in the top four. The contrast is made starker by their form over the last five games, Liverpool with five wins and United with a lone win and four draws.  Liverpool are riding the crest of a wave, clinching Champions League knock out stage qualification, overtaking Manchester City at the top of the log and mute celebrating Mo Salah. Southampton vs Arsenal Facts only: Southampton could set a club record of 13 Premier League games without a win. Their longest streak since 1989 Here’s another fact: in Arsenal’s defence, Rob Holding is out; Shkodran Mustafi is out, Sokratis Papastathopoulos is suspended, Dinos Mavroapnos is out. Three out of the four defenders who have featured heavily at the heart of the Arsenal defence. However, Unai Emery shouldn’t have much of a worry because of the state of Southampton’s attack. They have the joint-second worst attack in the Premier League with only 13 goals scored in their last 16 matches; a perfect game to ease Laurent Koscielny back into the side as the Gunners head into a testy and packed schedule in the festive season. Manchester City vs Everton Facts only: Manchester City vs Everton has produced a draw in three of their last four meetings After Chelsea ended the City’s unbeaten run, Pep Guardiola’s men will look to bounce back from the disappointing defeat. Though Everton are by no means mincemeat, they possess one of the best defence in the league only behind City, Chelsea, Liverpool and Watford. The Merseyside team are capable of springing a surprise with their fast-paced attackers, especially Richarlison who has been deployed as a central striker by Marco Silva. Sergio Aguero, who has just returned from injury could play a cameo in the game as City hope to return to the league summit after dropping off last week. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .