Embattled Nigerian lawmaker, senator Dino Melaye on Saturday told the Nigeria Police that the recent siege laid on his Abuja residence by security operatives is uncalled for, saying he is not a criminal. About 20 officers of the police were at Melaye’s residence on Friday, December 29 to arrest the lawmaker representing Kogi west senatorial district. “I don’t know why they are after me. I am not a criminal. I cannot be silenced. I cannot be forced to support who I don’t want to support,” Melaye said in a phone interview. The lawmaker, who stated he is currently not in Abuja, said he would make himself available for the Police next week to speak on the allegations. Melaye is currently standing trial in more than one suit. He has been accused of illegal possession of arms, gun running and sponsoring hoodlums in Kogi State. In a sperate trial, he was accused of a six-count charge, bordering on attempted suicide, attempt to escape from custody and damage of police property. Police spokesman Jimoh Moshood said one of the offences was committed by Senator Dino Melaye and his armed thugs in Kogi State on the 19th July 2018, when they shot and wounded the police officer, warranted his arrest. He added Police Officer is yet to recover from the gunshot injury he sustained during the attack and still under intensive medical care. Melaye challenged police to be responsible in securing the lives of Nigerian, rather than seeking the arrest of an innocent citizen like himself. He questioned the Inspector General of Police (IGP) Ibrahim Idris on why he should obey his orders when he (Idris) refused court orders to return his international passport to him. “Why are they after me when they can be securing the country. The police IGP want ordinary citizens to obey it orders when it had refused court orders on several occasions to return my passport.” Melaye has a running battle with Kogi State governor Yahya Bello and has accused the Nigerian police on several occasions of working with the governor to harm him. He doubled down on that claim on Tuesday. “There is a plan by the IG to arrest me today and inject me to death. Men deployed already. CP Kogi and others removed. Nigerians watch out,” Dino Melaye tweeted on Tuesday. However, the Police then said Melaye’s claims were false and described it as hate speech aimed at putting the force into disrepute before members of the public. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .