 Adebomojo Oluwaseun  The Guardian gathered that the late Adebomojo, aged 32, was an official of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Command. He died on Sunday, December 16, while on official duty. Elder sister to the deceased, Mrs. Adeola George-Ogosi, who spoke on behalf of the family, narrated the ordeals faced by relatives to journalists in Akure yesterday, saying they are suspecting foul play by the Federal Government agency. George-Ogosi lamented that the family have been thrown into grief and trauma, especially the aged mother and wife of the deceased, who are currently hospitalized due to shock of his death. “Since the news about Seun’s death was broken, the family has been in sadness. His mother and wife are currently on hospital bed and doctors are still trying to revive them from the shock. “We were told by the FRSC that it has completed his autopsy on Monday, every necessary documents have been filled and we are expecting his body to arrive today, only to be told that there is an order from above that his body should not be released. “This has caused us another trauma. We are appealing to well-meaning Nigerians to speak to the FRSC. We were told the driver escaped but the vehicle had been impounded. However, what has happened can’t be reversed but we must forestall the occurrence of another sad event in the family.” She said imminent calamity might be occasioned by the delay being experienced in the release of his body by the FRSC. Several efforts to speak with the FRSC official who had been relating with the family proved abortive as his phone was switched off yesterday. Meanwhile, a notorious burglar identified as Chukwuebuka Nweke from Oba Ofemili in Anambra State was on Tuesday nabbed by the police in Enugu State. It was gathered that the operatives had carried out their raids of suspected criminal hideout at Gariki in Ugwuoba axis of Oji River local Government Area of Enugu based on intelligence information it received. A release by the Police Public Relations Officer in Enugu, Ebere Amaraizu, disclosed that Chukwuebuka was nabbed during an operation with some suspected burgled and stolen items. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .