 (Left) Fredrick Fasehun  “Papa Fasehun in his life time made outstanding contributions to the nation’s progress in many capacities, and no doubt left behind a worthy legacy through his careers as a renowned medical doctors and politician, among others. “He exhibited very good leadership qualities, wisdom and wealth of experience, which he indeed put to use in the discharge of his responsibility, as well as upholding the institution’s tradition of excellence, while alive.” 
 
Meanwhile, Senator Adeola, in a condolence message signed by his Spokesman, Kayode Odunaro, said the OPC founder stood for truth and also fought for human rights throughout his life.
 
The chairman of Senate Committee on Local Content said his senatorial district had lost a prominent Nigerian, who stood for truth and fought for the rights of his people in Nigerian federation. His role in the fight to enthrone democracy against military rule in Nigeria remains indelible in history. In another condolence message, former Deputy National Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Olabode George described Fasehun as a quintessential embodiment of principled and unswerving advocate of protecting the weak and defending the trampled. He said: “He was a Yoruba Elder with complete attributes of the Omoluabi culture. But he was also a Nigerian patriot, who fought for justice, truth and democratic ethos. He was a restless and fearless activist, who lived a simple and incorruptible life, pursuing his mission with balanced commitment, with the purity of affection and with a broad nobility of character.”
 
Meanwhile, Pro National Conference Organisation (PRONACO) said it received the news in shock.  Dr. Frederick Usiotan Fasehun was born on September 21, 1935 to the illustrious family of High Chief Columbus Akindojutimi Fasehun, the Lomofe of Ondo Kingdom, and before his demise, the High Chief Odunwo designate of Ondo Kingdom, and Madam Olakuojomu, a scion of the Jomu Warlord family of Ondo Kingdom. He attended St Stephen’s Primary School, Ondo and Ondo Boys High School, Ondo. Dr. Fasehun also attended the University of Aberdeen, where he bagged his MB.ChB. He later became the first African to bag a PhD in the Chinese medicine of Acupuncture from the University of Nankin, China. He was Nigeria’s foremost anaesthesiologist, the first to supervise a surgery without putting the patient to sleep at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital in 1977. He was a Fellow of Royal College of Surgeon, Fellow of West African College of Surgeon, a teacher and mentor of many Professors of anesthesia. He was the author of ‘The Complete Book of Acupuncture.’ To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .