Chairman OTRAFFORD Squash Club, Remi Adeseun (middle) stressing a point. With him is Vice Chairman; Taye Ige (far right), Club Captain, Biyi Mabadeje (far left) and Boye Oyerinde, President Nigeria Squash Federation (second left) at a press conference in Lagos, for the maiden edition of the PSA National Closed Satellite Squash Tournament billed for December 19-22, 2018 • Winners To Pocket $1,000, $500
A total of 75 players made up of 48 male and 27 female will battle for the prize money at stake at the maiden OTrafford PSA National Satellite Squash Tournament, which is globally sanctioned. It will hold from December 19-22 at the OTrafford Squash Club, inside the 81 Division Army Officers Mess in Marina, Lagos. Among the players who had registered for the tournament include two gold medallists at the on-going 19th National Sports Festival in Abuja. The tournament’s male champion will pocket $1,000 US dollars, while the women’s title will get $500 US dollars. Speaking in Lagos yesterday, Chairman of OTrafford Squash Club, Remi Adeseun said the tournament would provide a platform for players to reach out for international exposure and upgrade their career status. “This is the first ever PSA Closed Satellite squash tournament to be organized by this club. There have been other squash competitions in the country, but it has been mainly for the prize money. In O Trafford, we decided to use this tournament as a means for Nigerian squash players to gather enough points to get PSA rankings and compete outside the country,” Adeseun said. He also noted that the club is putting up plans to develop the game of squash from the grassroots level with a focus on secondary schools, starting from Lagos Island. Speaking also at the occasion, President of the Nigeria Squash Federation, Boye Oyerinde commended OTrafford Squash Club for putting up the PSA satellite tournament, which is in line with the vision of the NSF to revive the game and make it more vibrant in Nigeria. “Part of the problem we have in revitalizing our squash was lack of tournaments for the senior category, that is why we have to thank OTrafford Squash Club. This will be the third tournament we will be having this year after the rankings for the senior category in October 2017,” Oyerinde said. According to OTrafford Squash Club captain, Biyi Mabadeje, December 19 will serve as registration of players. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .