Citing inability of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to fulfill its electioneering promises, more than 2000 members of the party have defected en masse to the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The mostly young poiliticians, who were led by an APC stalwart in Limawa ward, Alhaji Umaru Makama Galamawa, decried the ruling party’s resort to lies and propaganda to cover ineptitude and lack of focused leadership. Galamawa praised the simplicity and humility of PDP candidate for Jigawa Central Senatorial District, Mustapha Sule Lamido, saying they were interested in working with him to redefine leadership in Jigawa State. Receiving the defectors at Limawa ward, Dutse Local Government Council of the state, Lamido Jnr expressed optimism that with the harvest of APC defectors into the party, PDP was as good as winning the 2019 general election.He noted that being a youth as the defectors, he was glad to identify with the youths and hopes to get victory at the polls, adding that the new members would receive equal treatment as other stakeholders. He stated: “It is time for youths to actively participate in politics because the ruling party is fully prepared to offer a different perspective in governance to eradicate poverty, hunger and frustration that has become commonplace in the country.” The Senatorial candidate said when PDP comes to power it would work for youths, women, children, the elderly and everybody in general, stressing that nepotism and disunity would no longer feature in governance. Earlier, the state chairman of the party, Salisu Mamuda, assured the new members that PDP is big enough to carry everybody along, even as his predecessor, Isa Duniya Bahutu, lamented that Nigerians were worse off now than they were three years ago. The party traveled in a motorcade to Wurma village in the local government to join in receiving another batch of 200 former members of APC to PDP.
Yahaya Khalid, who led the defectors, said they were used, deceived and dumped, stressing that they decided to leave the sinking APC ship before another calamity befalls them and to protest the fact that the ruling party did not fulfill its campaign promises. The PDP gubernatorial candidate, Aminu Ibrahim Ringim, his running mate, Hussain Umar Namadi, as well as Senator Abdulaziz Usman Tarabu, among other dignitaries accompanied the party’s Senatorial candidate in the zone, Mustapha Sule LamidoJnr, on the visit.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .