No fewer than 200 indigent Nigerians suffering from Hernia have been relieved of their burden as they got free surgery in Ogun State courtesy of Stallionaire Nigeria Limited in collaboration with Rotary Club International. The exercise which came as part of the company’s  corporate social responsibility in the outgoing year was carried out in Abeokuta, the state capital where both the young and old affected with the scourge of Hernia received free surgery at the Free Hernia Surgical Operation Camp organised for the purpose. Hernia is a disease associated with grave disability, morbidity and mortality especially in long standing neglected cases though curable if promptly identified and treated. Stallionaire Group which is an operator of oil tank farms has chosen to touch lives of the affected Hernia patients in line with the global need to make the disease public health problem that would involve the intervention of corporate and International organizations as a way of helping to reduce the burden of sufferers particularly in Africa with limited surgical capacity. As a corporate body, the Stallionaire Group partnered with the Rotary Club; an international humanitarian group, to facilitate the one week programme during which the best surgeons, nurses,   anesthetists, theatre assistants and other medical officers were assembled to assist in the surgery project. The operations took place at the State Hospital and Federal Medical Centre in Abeokuta and the Olabisi Onabanjo University Hospital, Sagamu all in Ogun State. Prior to the commencement of the exercise, there was two weeks of publicity via the radio, to create awareness and sensitise the public about the project with full details of registration procedure. At the flag off, of the exercise, the Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Stallionaire Mr. Deji Somoye and the President of Rotary Club International, Abeokuta; Dr. Gbenga Taiwo had explained the significance of the project especially in reducing the high mortality rate of Hernia patients in the rural areas. The Rotary Club chieftain in turn, has expressed deep appreciation to Stallionaire Group for the 100 percent funding of the project and providing other financial support to assist the weak and poor in other areas. With no less than 200 beneficiaries in this first phase of the Hernia surgery project, well over 500 intending beneficiaries have already been screened for the second phase scheduled to hold in the first quarter of 2019. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .