An illustration of the proposed lekki Icomia Estate in Lagos As innovation continues to play an impactful role on the array of property options available to real estate consumers and industry professionals, Lekki Iconia and other emerging innovators are likely to be the torchbearers on luxuriously eco-friendly developments and disruptions in Nigeria’s real estate sector. The real estate sector worldwide has witnessed significant growth in environment friendly properties, after it became an intrinsic component of real estate since the onset of global warming. Real estate companies are now investing in the adoption of green housing options, the modernization of their structures and the creative expression of nature-friendly estates. Lekki Iconia, a state of the art luxurious and eco-friendly community set on the burgeoning Lekki Phase 1 and the sprawling city of Lagos has taken a lead in the inculcation of today’s eco-friendly technologies in a bid to grow the country’s real estate asset. Lekki Iconia stands on a class of its own even as it offers some of the best real estate pricing in town. “Lekki Iconia depicts the new way to live in Nigeria. Located in the Lekki axis of Lagos, Lekki Iconia is an efficient, eco-friendly and luxurious estate construed to ensure a paradigm shift in how we do things and live day-to-day,” Joy Ogbebor, Lekki Iconia’s Head, Business Development. Continuing, Ogbebor, explained, “relying heavily on world renowned partners who have immeasurable experience in building world class housing options and delivering ground breaking solutions, Lekki Iconia is on a daunting task of combining the pinnacle of luxury living in Lekki with the height of eco-friendly inclusion.” The estate is tastefully designed to implement luxury, innovation, inclusiveness, participation and customizable living options, making it a home that represents a new way to live. The company’s Head, Innovation and Strategy, Eloho Ochuko disclosed that the estate is an innovation and the first of its kind. “It has a list of unique offerings such as; bicycle riding for residents, eco-friendly construction materials and green power.” The developers are well aware that modern architecture has taken housing development to a level where design considerations are no more on space comfort and convenience alone, but also, increasingly, on economy and sustainability. The estate is set to introduce cycling or bicycle riding as part of its green and eco-friendly concept, because to be truly green and sustainable, residents have to be encouraged to walk and ride bicycles in order to reduce or completely eliminate pollution that comes with driving cars that emit smoke and carbon substances. Ogbebor further said that besides other considerations, location makes Lekki Iconia especially different. “Lekki is today a residential and commercial destination in Lagos where iconic developments like the 650,000 barrels per day Dangote Refinery and the Lekki Free Trade Zone make a lot of investment sense to patient investors who have long term view of the real estate market,” she said. Ogbebor noted the homes at Lekki Iconia are on the market for at least up to 40 – 70 per cent lower rates than other properties of the same quality, class and within the same location. “The payment plans are up to 60 months long making them convenient, flexible and easy to pay for. Lekki Iconia is the greener and more luxurious option due to the quality of work and world-renowned construction partners,” she said. According to her, Horizon Estate, the real estate company that birthed the iconic project that is Lekki Iconia, is a group of 15 uniquely designed estates with over 850 home units delivered across the choice residential location that is Lekki Phase 1 in Lagos. Her words: “These exotically built estates offer state of the art infrastructure and facilities such as swimming pools, tennis courts, portable water, excellent power supply system, drainage systems, well interlocked roads that ensures a smooth ride for all occupants and guests.” Lekki Iconia is targeted at first time homeowners, especially the millennials, who are at the core of technology and its limitless possibilities. The project is also targeted at better life seekers, savvy investors, couples with a combined monthly income of about N300,000 and young professionals with the same earning power. The Sales Executive, Adaobi Agu explained that the estate offers three different house-types: two and four-bedroom apartments and three-bedroom terrace duplexes, each with affordable prices and flexible payment plan. “We are also offering amazing discounts for all outright purchases made this season”, Agu said, urging home seekers and investors to avail themselves of this opportunity.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .