 Former Minister of Foreign Affairs, Odein Ajumogobia (SAN) (left); Justice of Nigeria’s Supreme Court, Justice Amina Adamu Augie, wife of the Principal Partners, Kenna Partners, Ifeoma Ajogwu; Prof. Fabian Ajogwu, (SAN); Mr. Damian Dodo (SAN) and the founding chairman of Zenith Bank. Mr. Jim Ovia at the presentation of a book: ‘Brief Insights: A Selection of Milestone Cases’, at the 25th anniversary of Kenna Partners in Lagos recently.  Former Minister of Foreign Affairs, Odein Ajumogobia (SAN), stressed the importance of law in the society. Ajumogobia, who noted government’s engagement with the Nigeria Bar Association  (NBA) with regards to the fight against corruption
and other vices, however, expressed displeasure with the government’s tendency to define the law according to its own whims and caprices – as evidenced in the President’s recent comments about rule of law, individual rights and national interest.
 
Also, the Chairman of National Lottery Regulatory Commission, Mr. Damian Dodo (SAN) debunked the notion that lawyers were major financial beneficiaries of Nigeria’s electoral challenges. He called for an end to undue delays in the resolution of cases. US-trained financial strategist, Mr. Chukwuka Chukwuma said a fundamental paradigm in the country’s socio-economic profile is the spring forth of a number of infrastructural projects and other important landmarks through efforts by law firms. In her opening remarks, the Chairman of the occasion, Chief (Mrs.) Folake Solanke (SAN), called for a fundamental paradigm shift away from the currently unsatisfactory state of legal practice and legal education, describing the latter as a ‘lowering of the bar of proficiency to accommodate the indolent.’ “A situation where a score of below 50 per cent in a law examination or test is considered a pass”, Chief Solanke said, was a scandal. Earlier, the Principal Partners, Kenna Partners, Prof. Fabian Ajogwu (SAN) recounted the humble beginnings of Kenna Partners back in May of 1993 when it first opened its doors for business.
 
He linked the survival of the law firm for 25 years and its prosperity to the partners’ “dedication, expertise and commitment to
excellence.Legal luminaries and dignitaries as well as top business leaders such as boardroom guru, Mr. Pascal Dozie and the founding chairman of Zenith Bank, Mr. Jim Ovia graced the event. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .