Dangote EFCC arraigns two over $5m scam, corps member in Enugu
Hearing in an alleged N15 million fraud involving three employees of Dangote Cement and another accused took a dramatic turn as the first and second defendants, Adewale Dameilda and Ibrahim Lawal, pleaded guilty to the charges. The defendants had earlier pleaded not guilty to the charges preferred against them by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) in a case brought before Justice O. J. Bamgbose of the High Court, Abeokuta, Ogun State. EFCC’s Acting Spokesman, Tony Orilade, in a statement yesterday in Abuja disclosed that the commission arraigned the suspects alongside Luqman Lawal and Afeez Olaniba on December 6, 2018 on a two-count charge bordering on conspiracy and stealing of N15 million. He said the complainant, Dangote Cement, had alleged that Dalmeida, a Fleet Analyst; Lawal, Chief Driver; Adam, a Ghanaian Driver and Olaniba, an agent of Dangote Cement contractor, diverted trucks carrying 800 bags of cement valued at over N15 million. They were said to have diverted the cement meant for the company’s customers in Togo, using fake identification cards and number plate. Consequently, Justice Bamgbose had adjourned the matter to today for hearing of the bail applications. However, during proceedings yesterday, counsel to the first defendant, Adewumi Adisa, told the court that he had filed a bail application on behalf of his client, saying that he intended for his client to change his earlier plea of not guilty to guilty. Also, the EFCC arraigned Victor Uadiale and Captain Everest Nnaji before Justice Mojisola Dada of the Special Offences Court sitting in Ikeja, Lagos at the weekend on a three-count charge bordering on obtaining over $5million by false pretence. They pleaded not guilty when the charge was read to them, but in view of their pleas, prosecution counsel, Nnemeka Omewa, told the court that the prosecution was ready to commence trial. However, counsel to the defendants, Abimbola Akeredolu (SAN) and Akinpelu Adekunle, objected to the prosecution counsel’s submission. Meanwhile, the EFCC yesterday arraigned a serving corps member, Victor Chibuzor Ogbonna, before a Federal High Court, Enugu on five-count charge bothering on intent to defraud and possession of documents containing false pretences. The offences were said to be contrary to section 6 of the Advance Fee Fraud and Other Fraud Related Offences Act 2006 and punishable under section 1 (3). Analysis carried out by the EFCC on Ogbonna’s computer revealed certain incriminating documents that would have been used to swindle unsuspecting members of the public.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .