 Rev. Dr. Alfred Adewale Martins  Martins said this yesterday at the Catholic Church of The Ascension, near Murtala Mohammed International Airport International, Ikeja, during the ‘Celebrating Married Life With the Archbishop’ programme themed ‘Mary in the bond of Families: Reclaiming lives for our Lord Jesus Christ’ organised by Lagos Archdiocesan Confraternity of Christian Mothers. While calling the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to discourage money politics, he urged that anybody caught perpetrating malpractice is dealt with according to the law. “These are times we are all very anxious about next year. The kind of politics of bitterness we used to have in the past should be put behind us now. The politicians have to ensure that they conduct themselves and their supporters in such a way that peace has to be established,” he said. The archbishop also called on the electorate to know that their votes would determine their future for a long while, hence they should vote with a measure of responsibility, taking into cognisance the credibility of those they were voting for. He called on Christians to pray for the nation, for God to intervene this time around. The archbishop hinged the programme on the need to re-affirm the importance of marriage and family life.“There are many challenges in marriage which, according to God, is based on ‘till death do both of them part’. However, today, there is a lot of confusion, as people are trying to re-define it. So, this is an opportunity to re-affirm God’s plan for marriage and of course for family life, which is a vital part of human society,” he said. President of the Lagos Archdiocesan Confraternity of Christian Mothers, Mrs. Rosaline Adeniyi, said that the programme was to encourage all married couples, including widows and widowers who are still holding on to the sanctity of marriage, so that the archbishop, who is the chief shepherd of the archdiocese, would bless and appreciate them.She called on parents to play their role effectively by training their children.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .