 Davido and Chioma. Photo credit Fortune  The music industry propagates a system of wealth, flamboyance and revenue, but clear observation shows that only a handful of Nigerian artistes are really breaking bread. The Nigerian music industry in the past years has expanded so much and is now arguably the largest music industry in Africa. As the year 2018 closes it door on Monday, December 31, there is no doubt of the fact that the industry indeed delivered on some if not most of its expectations. For some artistes the year 2017 will go down as an eventful one, while for some others it was not. As the curtains draw to a close, several activities happened on the showbiz scene that made the year to be a spectacular one. A recent entertainment and celebs report titled Entertainment & Celebs Report 2017 (Nigeria), which was released by Pierrine Consulting, a firm with specialty in marketing research and strategy, with strong focus on helping clients achieve desired business results and future growth, showed that Tubaba, Davido, Olamide, Wizkid and Psquare (now defunct) are the top five Nigerians’ favourite artistes. With Davido as the most listened to artiste in the country in 2017, Olamide lead the list of favourites artistes among 18-24 years old Nigerians, with strong base in Lagos and Ibadan; Tekno along with Adam Zango and Abulazeez Fada lead the pack of favourites for Kano residents. Though Bauchi is open, Tubaba, Adam Zango, Davido, Solomon Lange and Psquare make top five list. Wizkid Revolution As Africa’s New Bride Of Music Starboy Entertainment head honcho, Ayodeji Balogun well known as Wizkid continued his stride as an enigma with his music revolution, dropping hits singles like Soco, Manya, Nowo, Fever and Master Groove. ‘Soco’ was one of the hit songs produced by the Baba Nla crooner this year. The ‘Star Boy featured Ceeza Mili, Spotless and Terri in the fast-paced Afro-beat tune that became the most favourite song for ‘Shaku Shaku’ dance. He got the American singer and dancer, Chris Brown dancing to ‘Soco’. In a viral video that trended on the social media, the American star was seen taking the ‘shaku shaku’ dance steps, alongside other blacks guys. Brown had previously worked with Wizkid in 2016, when he highlighted Wizkid as a special guest in his European tour. In February 2014, Wizkid became the first Nigerian musician to have over one million followers on Twitter. He went on to become the first Afro-beat artiste to appear in the 2018 Guinness World Records, for his contribution to Drake’s hit song One Dance. The Fever video recorded over one million views on YouTube, 24 hours after its release. The record-breaking event made Caro singer the first Nigerian singer to have two songs gathering one million views in 24 hours. The 28-year-old first achieved the feat in 2017 with the video for his collaboration with Drake in the song One Dance. Upon the release of Fever on YouTube, fans were shocked to see Tiwa Savage, who made an unexpected cameo in intimate scenes with Wizkid. Explicit sexual scenes dominated the music video, which was produced under the exclusive license of RCA Records, and this stirred reactions from Nigerians on social media. When Ojuelegba crooner began his music career in 2010, with the release of his début album Superstar, which featured hit songs like Holla at Your Boy, Love My Baby, Pakurumo and Oluwa Lo Ni, little did he know that he was definitely on a journey to redefine the contemporary African music. Today, Wizkid has not only influenced the world with his kind of music, but also, he has set a new record for himself as a leading Afro pop star. He’s one of the most sought-after artistes ever to come out of Africa. He went home this year with Headies prize for Best R&B/Pop Album for his Sounds From The Other Side, Viewer’s Choice and Video of the Year with Come Closer. The Starboy round off the year with two mega shows — Wizkid VIP Experience Concert and Made In Lagos. The Gigs Indeed an amazing year for the entertainers, hence, there was no better way to cap the year than reward their fans with mega gigs and concerts this December. Beginning from December 1, there was virtually an event for each day, event promotion consortium, XCHANGE, put together world-class shows that saw event goers, artistes’ fans and followers gather in some iconic event venues across the country. On December 5, singer Asa led other alternative musicians such as Adekunle Gold, Bez, and Falana, a multitalented Nigerian-Canadian singer and songwriter, to raise the bar of what may was considered good music in Nigeria. The artistes gave a good account of themselves with outstanding performances at the ‘Spice Lifestyle Honors Awards’, which held at Eko Convention Centre, Eko Hotel & Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos. While Lagosians were trying to catch some rest after the Spice Lifestyle gig, Delphino Entertainment, a premier entertainment company based in Abuja on Thursday, December 6, hosted Davido to what maybe considered a sold out show in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. Just as Davido finished serenading his FCT fans with hit-by-hit records, frontline disc jockey, DJ Spinall yesterday treated fans and show goers to his annual DJ Spinall Party of Your Dream at the Grand Ballroom, Oriental hotel, Lagos. The yearly gospel musical concert, The Experience Lagos, unarguably the largest gospel event in Africa and probably in the world also held at its usual venue, Tafawa Balewa Square, Onikan Lagos. The event, which parades top gospel artistes from around the world in live performance, tells the story of Nigeria and the possibilities that can be attained if we focus on a common purpose. Most Talked About Celeb Couples
This year, some celebrity couples got the Internet social media buzzing, as they were talk-about in town. The celeb couples made the headlines for different reasons. While some made it dramatic year for themselves, others kept our attention glued to the social media pages with their lovey-dovey activities. Here are some of the most talked about celeb couples Juliet Ibrahim and Iceberg Slim The lovebirds were one of the most talked about celeb couples of the year. Their relationship was one not many saw coming but it eventually happened. The actress and the rapper showed how a celebrity couple can go public with their relationship and not bother with the pros and cons. From getting matching tattoos to attending events together and getaway vacation in Sao Tome, they had the blast of their life. However, in May this year, signs of crisis in their relationship began to show when Juliet deleted all Iceberg’s photos on her Instagram page. It became clear that the once admired relationship had been severed after they stopped showing up at events together, and Juliet started posting cryptic messages on her Instagram page, indicating that all was not well in ‘Loveville.’ Iceberg on the other hand, stayed off social media and concentrated more on his music. In October, Juliet in an interview confirmed that she exited the relationship on mutual understanding. She went further to state that she was single, which put to bed news that the relationship between her and Iceberg was over. From that moment, the estranged couple began to throw shades at each other on social media. Taking to his Instagram page and sharing a cryptic post, Iceberg wrote: “When toxic person can no longer control you, they’ll try to control how others see you. The Misinformation will feel unfair, but stay above it, trusting that other people will see the truth, just like you did.” 2Face Idibia and Annie There is no doubt, anything Tubaba is news worthy. The music icon and his actress wife, Anne as celebrity couple got a lot of buzz in this year. Despite being together for a long time, the lovebirds have continued to show everyone that their love is waxing stronger. Their fans couldn’t get enough of their different videos shared on Instagram, from Tubaba serving Annie breakfast on the bed to her famous twerking video; they got people talking. Just like most celebrity couples, they exchanged cute birthday messages on their birthdays. Annie surprised the Implication crooner with a getaway birthday surprise in Ghana Another reason the couple join the list of the most talked about celebrity couples of 2018 was when photos of their trip with the Koko Master, D’banj flooded the Internet. This was coming at the time D’banj lost his only son. Also, a video of Annie Idibia and Pero Adeniyi, one of 2Face’s baby mama, that got the internet buzzing saw African Queen singer become emotional, as the two women put aside their rift for peace. The Idibias rounded up the year with the now famous Coke Cola TV commercial, where the whole family gave their best interpretation of family bond. Banky W and Adesua Unarguably the most talked about celebrity couple in 2017 following their famous engagement and wedding, Banky W and Adesua didn’t slow down as they strolled into 2018 in that romantic mood, and this, their fans loved them for. When they began to share photos from their first events as a couple in 2018, fans couldn’t but admire them. The messages they sent to each other on their birthdays and one-year wedding anniversary cannot be forgotten in a hurry, as it was filled with so much love and affection for each other. The Lagos Party crooner got everyone got talking when he declared his intention to run for the House of Representatives seat in Lagos state. The social media buzz massively as a number of celebrities joined force to rallied support for one of their own. Adesua stole the show when she wrote about the reason why everyone should vote for her husband and she did a pretty good job. Davido and Chioma For the self-proclaimed Omo Baba Olowo, David Adeleke well known as Davido and Chioma Avril Rowland, 2018 was indeed their year. No one envisaged that Davido will find love in the year under review or show off his love interest. It all started at the beginning of the year when the 30billion singer flooded his snapchat with photos of a mystery woman. It didn’t take long before the DWM boss revealed to everyone that he was in a relationship with the mystery lady, who was later identified as Chioma Avril Rowland. Since they went public with their relationship, they haven’t stopped to show off how happy they are together. From accompanying Davido to tours outside the country to hanging out at expensive restaurants, Chioma has indeed been a major party of the Skelewu singer’s 2018 high points. Highpoint of the duo’s relationship was when the singer surprised her with a really expensive car on her birthday. This set the Internet buzzing, as it was a trending topic for days. Despite the rumours that the relationship was facing a crisis, the lovebirds have showed that there is strength in their union as they have brush it off and move on. On Davido’s birthday, the two showed up at the all-white themed party looking pretty good together. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .