Meghan Markle, the Duchess of Sussex made an unexpected appearance at the 2018 British Fashion Awards. She looked radiant as she presented an award to the designer of her wedding dress, Clare Waight Keller. Clare Waight Keller, artistic director at Givenchy, was named womenswear designer of the year at the event. The Duchess said Waight Keller was “leading on the global stage with vision and creativity”. “When I met her for the first time 11 months ago I knew we would be working very closely together,” she added. Meghan, who wore a one-shouldered black Givenchy gown that showed her growing baby bump, paid tribute to Waight Keller’s “incredible kindness” at the Royal Albert Hall ceremony. In 2017 the Birmingham-born designer became the first female artistic director of French fashion house Givenchy. In her acceptance speech she expressed gratitude to the Duchess saying, “to have someone like that trust you in an incredible moment in their life is something that is just the most unbelievable honour,” she added. “I can’t thank you enough.” The president and CEO of Italian fashion house Gucci, Marco Bizzari won the business leader award and his brand clinched the award for brand of the year. Meghan Markle, Claire Waight Kelle and Rosamund Pike. Photo: Getty The award was a glamorous one as the biggest names in fashion attended. Models and actresses in attendance include Kate Moss, Kendall Jenner, Jourdan Dunn, Winnie Harlow, Penelope Cruz, Uma Thurman and Rosamund Pike. Here is the full list of winners Accessories designer of the year – Demna Gvasalia for Balenciaga
Brand of the year – Gucci
British menswear designer of the year – Craig Green for Craig Green
British womenswear designer of the year – Clare Waight Keller for Givenchy
British menswear emerging talent – Samuel Ross for A-COLD-WALL*
British womenswear emerging talent – Richard Quinn for Richard Quinn
Business leader – Marco Bizzarri for Gucci
Designer of the year – Pierpaolo Piccioli for Valentino
Model of the year – Kaia Gerber
Urban Luxe award – Virgil Abloh for Off-White
Trailblazer award – Kim Jones
Isabella Blow award for fashion creator – Mert & Marcus
Outstanding achievement – Miuccia Prada
Special recognition award for innovation – Parley for the Oceans
Positive change award – Dame Vivienne Westwood