Controversial TV show host, Wendy Williams has shared her two cents on the ongoing Cardi B and Offset marriage drama. Williams who is famous for her unpopular opinions isn’t buying Cardi B and Offset’s split. She makes it clear that it is, in fact, Offset’s attempts to win Cardi back that she really doesn’t believe! According to the 54-year-old Williams, she believes it is all a publicity stunt and Cardi B needs to do better. Her opinion is following Offset’s incessant pleas for forgiveness from his estranged wife, Cardi B who announced in early December that they are heading for a divorce. Although Cardi B didn’t give reasons for their split, rumours that the Migos rapper cheated on the mother of his child quickly spread. Reacting to the drama that has since surrounded both rappers since the spit, Williams told her studio audience today, “It seems like we’re always hearing the same story over and over again, I don’t know how to keep up”. Wiliams goes on to explain Offset’s most recent attempt to get Cardi back on December 15 when he essentially crashed the stage at her Rolling Loud Festival show in LA. He showed up with a massive cake and floral bouquet, which read “Take Me Back Cardi.” “Fans think it was a PR stunt, and I agree with the fans,” Wiliams said. “Offset walked on stage with a cake and flowers… I don’t believe she knew about it. I believe he and her publicist knew about it… you know all the people behind the scenes,” she continued, explaining her belief that Cardi shouldn’t have gotten married or had a child in the first place. “I wish that she hadn’t gotten married and I wish that she hadn’t had a baby… she could have waited for another time,” Wiliams added. “Cardi is on the fast track right now. Certainly her DMs are full of guys who would love to date her… I just feel like the complications of being involved with a man with three kids already is a little.. who wants that, whether you’re famous or not?” It is noteworthy that Offset’s children from past relationships have never been an issue for Cardi B but she has never been cool with his alleged infidelities. As earlier reported, Cardi B announced their split on December 5 via a video on Instagram saying they have been going through some downs for a while now. The couple got married in September 2017, and although Cardi B announced that they are heading for a divorce, reports have it that they are are still legally married, and she is yet to make a move towards filing divorce papers.