 Razak Jaiyeola  Accountants under the aegis of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), have advised the federal government to declare a state of emergency on corruption in the country. They insisted that fighting corruption requires drastic solution due to its insidious effects on the entire local and global economy and succeeding generations. ICAN President, Razak Jaiyeola, who stated this in Lagos, Tuesday, also urged government at all levels to establish special courts that would deal with cases of corruption in a speedy manner. He said delay in adjudicating on corruption cases could serve as an impetus for perpetrators to continue in the act, hence, a need for a judicial system that would be strong to serve as deterrent against corrupt tendencies. He argued that the acts establishing the different agencies saddled with the task of fighting corruption should be revisited and further strengthened, to grant them total autonomy from any seating government to forestall political interferences in their activities. Jaiyeola said there was the need to mandate all political officeholders or aspirants to declare their assets before and after tenure in office. He urged government to collaborate with respective professional bodies in addressing the menace of corruption, as this cuts across different fields, disciplines and sectors. He noted that government’s efforts at fighting it would yield better results if all professional bodies enforce the ethics of their professions on all their members and infractions are properly dealt with. “The consequences of remaining passive on issues of corruption and other financial misdemeanor can be grave not only for the present generation but succeeding ones. That is why we must all remain united against corruption as the theme of this year’s Anti-Corruption Day clearly spelt out. All stakeholders in the economy must join hands and aspire to eliminate corruption and embrace accountability, transparency, and good governance in our various professions. Fighting corruption requires vigilant citizens, a transparent public sector and ethical business practices,” he stated. He restated that as part of its support for the war against graft, ICAN in 2015, launched a N50million Whistle-Blower’s Fund, to protect and compensate its members who report any form of financial misdemeanor in the country, while also set up an Investigative Panel, and a Disciplinary Tribunal to deal decisively with all reported and observed cases of infractions by any ICAN member. Addressing 668 new members, who were inducted into the Association of Accounting Technicians West Africa (AATWA), Jaiyeola charged them to perform their duty and fulfill their obligations to the institute, and their future employers faithfully, in accordance with the ICAN Act and the laws of Nigeria. Also speaking, a past President of ICAN and special guest of honour at the 49th induction ceremony, Herbert Adewole Agbebiyi, emphasised the need for the new professionals to, “Use personality traits and visioning to achieve life’s goals.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .