Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho has said it would take a ‘miracle’ for the Red Devils to finish fourth at the end of the English Premier League (EPL) season. Mourinho, at the beginning of the season, said the strength of Manchester United team will guarantee the team a top-four finish. However, over three matches in the league, the former Chelsea manager seems to be having a rethink at the target. When asked about the team’s chance in the top four in November, Mourinho said “but I believe we are going to be there.” Mourinho’s side are without a league win since a 2-1 victory against Bournemouth on November 3 and either side of securing qualification for the Champions League, they have drawn their last two league fixtures against Crystal Palace and Southampton. United, who finished 19 points behind champions Manchester City in the 2017/18 campaign, currently sit seventh in the league and are eight points behind fourth-placed Arsenal, with the two sides meeting at Old Trafford on Wednesday. “Last year I said it was fantastic to finish second considering the quality we had compared to other teams who were fighting for a top-four finish,” Mourinho said while speaking in preparation to the clash against Arsenal. “This year, as we’re facing even more problems, it proves what I said when the season started: that it would be very tough for us. Now we must try and win as many points as we can. It will take almost a miracle to finish in the top four.” Mourinho’s time at Manchester United has attracted criticisms from pundits, particularly former players of the club like – Gary Neville who said United were a million miles away from challenging for the top four. Paul Scholes after 12 matches in the 2018/2019 Premier League season believes that rivals Manchester City already won the title. However, United’s result against Arsenal has a ‘huge’ potential of defining the Red Devil’s season. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .