L-R: Ooni of Ife Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, the founder of the Obijackson Foundation Dr Ernest Azudialu-Obiejesi (second right) flanked by the new Face of Okija (male) Achukwu Promise Chidi and the new Queen Oluchi Blessing Nwizugbo at the Face of Okija Cultural Festival which held in Okija Anambra state last night. The grand finale of the fifth edition of the New Face of Okija Cultural Pageant held at the weekend at the Okija Cultural Ground, Anambra State, with 25-year-old Oluchi Blessing Nwizugbo, a graduate of History and International Relations from Ebonyi State University, emerging as winner (Queen) in the female category. Also, Chidi Promise Unuchukwu, aged 25, and a graduate of Accounting from the Anambra State University, emerged the winner (King) in the female category. In the event attended by the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi; renowned Kenyan professor of law, activist, public speaker and social critic, Patrick Lumumba; and celebrated author, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, the winners got a car and N1 million cash each from the organizer/sponsor of the event, Group Managing Director of Obijackson Group of Companies and founder of Obijackson Foundation, Dr. Ernest Azudialu Obiejesi. The duo promised to use their new position/ status to offer their services to the less privileged across the nation. They thanked the sponsor for the opportunity of discovering them and promised to be good ambassadors of the area and the foundation. Speaking, the founder, Azudialu-Obiejesi charged the new king and queen to show themselves as worthy ambassadors of the foundation and of Igboland. He said: “You must now, by your daily conduct, display positive virtues that your peers will continue to emulate. As ambassadors of Obijackson Foundation, you occupy a position of influence. We are urging you to use it to impact on humanity.” He noted that ‘The Face of Okija Cultural Festival’ began in 2014 as an initiative to drive attention of the youths to the positive values of the Igbo culture, adding that this year’s edition paid emphasis on discouraging youths from embarking on the dangerous and unnecessary trips across the Mediterranean sea to Europe in search of an imaginary better life.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .