Fans at the Burna Live concert. Photo: thepamilerin If there is one thing Burna Boy is widely known for; it is how passionate he is about music. Not just his music but music generally, and he further attested to this fact by bringing out the industry’s most sought-after and critically acclaimed to share the stage with him at his concert ‘Burna Live’ organised by Loud Africa, at the EKO Convention Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos. With DJ Consequence harnessing the wheels of steel, the night started out with some of the industry’s highly sought-after talents rocking the stage to dish out exhilarating performances, including Show Dem Camp, who performed their single Up to You, alongside Funbi, then bringing out Boj and LadiPOE to perform their hit Feel Alright. Singer L.A.X also thrilled the massive audience with his hits Panana, Gbefun and Runaway. Other talents that rocked the stage include Dammy Krane, Fresh L, Kida Kudz, Air Boy and a host of others. Then came the night the audience had all been waiting for; the man of the hour himself Burna started out with performing perhaps the biggest single off his third studio album; Heaven’s Gate, before going on to perform his other massive hits – then the night progressed with the singer bringing out musical legends D’banj and 2Baba to perform their popular smash hit ‘Baba Nla’ with Larry Gaga momentarily joining the trio on stage. Following a few more solo performances, Burna Boy went on to bring out indigenous rapper Zlatan to perform a single which Burna featured him on and had released just a night earlier titled ‘Killin Dem’. The rapper then went on to perform his radio hit ‘Zanku (Legwork)’; dishing out the signature dance move which he has come to be identified with; to which the crowd bellowed in amusement. Burna Boy was far from done; he moved on to bring out one of Nigeria’s most recognized vocalists Wande Coal and the duo performed their 2013 record ‘Amorawa’ before Wande proceeded to perform his more recent hits like Iskaba, Turkey Nla and So Mi So. Oluwaburna reminded the audience where he grew up; Port Harcourt City and then brought out the self-acclaimed PH’s first son; the legend Duncan Mighty to rock the stage together. Duncan performed his hits Fake Love and Port Harcourt Son. Then, like the night couldn’t get more exuberant, Mayorkun ascended the stage and performed some of his hits before being joined by the rest of the DMW team; Peruzzi, Dremo, along with their boss Davido to perform hit records like Mind, Amaka and more. After more Burna performances, the singer brought out Star Boy Wizkid; putting the audience into another uncontrolled frenzy. The singer performed hits like Oju Elegba, Soco and the more recent Fever. Then just as Burna thrilled the gleeful audience with more solo performances, Timaya graced the stage, then came his former protégé Patoranking; in what the singers later described as a surprise visit, in a bid to show Burna some love on his big night before exiting the stage with a bow. 