UNICEF The Theatre Command Operation Lafiya Dole has suspended the operations of the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF) in the Northeast theatre, until further notice. A statement yesterday by Deputy Director Public Relations, Theatre Command, Colonel Onyema Nwachukwu, yesterday said UNICEF is sabotaging the counter-terrorism and counter-insurgency efforts of troops through spurious and unconfirmed allegations bothering on alleged violation of human rights by the military. Nwachukwu added that the organization has abdicated its primary duty of catering for the wellbeing of children and the vulnerable through humanitarian activities and is now engaged in training selected persons for clandestine activities to frustrate the efforts of the Nigerian military. He said: “Theatre Command Operation LAFIYA DOLE has observed with dismay that some of the activities of International Humanitarian Agencies and non-governmental organisations operating in the Northeast have left so much to be desired. “There is credible information that some of them are indulging in unwholesome practices that could further jeopardise the fight against terrorism and insurgency, as they train and deploy spies who support the insurgents and their sympathisers. He noted that UNICEF has been playing the terrorists’ script with the aim to continue demoralizing the troops who are doing so much to protect the lives of victims of Boko Haram terrorism and safeguard them from wanton destruction of property and means of livelihood. “The Theatre Command considers the actions of these organizations as a direct assault and insult on the sensibilities of Nigerians, as they tend to benefit more from expanding the reign of terror on our people. “Information within the reach of this Command specifically indicates that the organisation commenced the said training on Wednesday, December 12, 2018 at the Ministry of Finance Conference Hall, Musa Usman Secretariat, Maiduguri and ended on Thursday, December 13, 2018. The Theatre Command will not tolerate this kind of sabotage from any individual, group of persons or organisations.” He, therefore, urged all NGOs and members of humanitarian agencies to keep to their legitimate norms in the discharge of their acclaimed humanitarian duties.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .