House of Representatives member Gudaji Muhammed Kazaure said President Muhammadu Buhari was interrupted and booed by some lawmakers while presenting the 2019 budget at the National Assembly because he refused to give lawmakers bribe. “The past administration normally bribe the members before they brought the budget,” Kazaure said while addressing journalist during an interview. “That is what the PDP members want; that is what they experienced before,” “The president is not corrupt, he cannot send us money, that is why they were shouting,” he added. Kazaure, who represents the Kazaure/Roni/Gwiwa/Yankwashi constituency in Jigawa state, also stated that two weeks before the president came for the presentation, the opposition People’s Democratic Party members conducted several meetings to delay the budget and create problems for the president. But when journalist asked the lawmaker how  true is allegations are, he claimed that some of the lawmakers have said to to him that the president has not sent ‘anything’ to them. The parliament was threw into a rowdy session on Wednesday when the president was presenting the 2019, most especially when he  mentioned each of his achievements, some lawmakers, mainly of the opposition chorused, ‘No!’. The chorus and noise forced some lawmakers of the ruling  All Progressives Congress (APC)to clash verbally with their colleagues as they booed the president. The chaos worsened as Buhari began to list some capital projects his government claimed it initiated across the country. Many lawmakers shouted, “No!” “Not correct!” “Propaganda!” When he mentioned his government’s anti-corruption war, his words were met with shouts of “Liar!” and “Grass cutter!” the latter being a reference to a financial scandal that involved cutting of grass amid allegations the president was shielding the perpetrator. Embarrassed, the president paused. “May I appeal to senators and honourable members that the world is watching us. We are supposed to be above this,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .