 PHOTO: Twitter/NGSuper_Falcons  As Nigeria face South Africa in today’s Africa Women Cup of Nations final in Accra, Ghana, the Super Falcons say they won’t give the Banyana Banyana any room to dictate the pace. The Nigerians have promised to retain the trophy by attacking the South Africans from the referee’s first blast of the whistle at the Accra Sports Stadium.In 20 years of its existence, Nigeria had dominated the Women AFCON to an embarrassing degree, with only Equatorial Guinea breaking their clean sweep on two occasions. Experience is an advantage for the Super Falcons, but it would not be an easy afternoon against a skillful, creative, energetic and technically–savvy Banyana Banyana side boosted by their 1-0 defeat of the Super Falcons in the opening match of Group B in Cape Town on November 18.Goalkeeper Tochukwu Oluehi would as usual, be protected by the quartet of Josephine Chukwunonye, Onome Ebi, Osinachi Ohale and Ngozi Ebere, with Rita Chikwelu, Halimatu Ayinde and Ngozi Okobi likely to star in the middle, behind Francisca Ordega, Desire Oparanozie and Asisat Oshoala. Nigeria defeated South Africa to win 2000 AWC in Johannesburg.Former Super Falcons coach, Ismaila Mabo, says history would repeat itself again in Nigeria’ favour this afternoon. Speaking with The Guardian yesterday, Mabo said regardless the scores of the first group game where South Africa beat Nigeria, it would be impossible for them to repeat that feat against the Falcons today. Former Super Eagles coach, Christian Chukwu, has however, urged the Falcons to approach today’s final with total commitment. Chukwu stated that the financial motivation by the NFF was enough to propel the girls against Banyana Banyana.“The Falcons will beat South Africa in the final. But they should not be too aggressive in the match, and they must avoid complacency. The Falcons should not think about the defeat to South Africa in the group stage,” Chukwu stated.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .