 Ogun State governor Senator Ibikunle Amosun  Amosun also used the flag-off ceremony held at the Ake Palace of the Alake of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Aremu Gbadebo, to campaign for the second term of President Muhammadu Buhari, who he said, was poised to re-position Nigeria for greatness. The governor, who warned against attempt by some forces outside the state to hijack the government of the state for selfish ends, said his achievements as governor of the state spurred him to seek to represent the senatorial district in the upper federal legislative chamber.He said: “All sectors of our state’s economy have received tremendous boosts. Many more of our children are in schools and can compete favourably with their counterparts anywhere in the world. Our people are healthier and have far better access to basic healthcare. We now have physical and social infrastructure that support businesses to thrive and attract new businesses.” The governor said his loyalists, who recently joined the Allied Peoples Movement (APM), were frustrated out of the All Progressives Congress (APC).
According to him, his loyalists, who defected to the APM, are also members of APC but were “wronged” by the national leadership of the party, which necessitated their defection.He described the APM as a child of necessity. He, however, said the movement was a good omen for Buhari and himself, who he said, had been adopted as APM’s presidential and Ogun Central Senatorial candidates respectively. “I am a member of APC but clearly, I told you before that some of our people felt that they have not been treated fairly. There is a form of injustice, which all of you are aware of. For me, this is not what we prayed for. If anybody has told me that it is going to be like this, I will say no but clearly, God will show His way at any time to we ordinary mortals. “It is a win-win scenario. Now, we’ve ensured that President Muhammadu Buhari will still win, and in Ogun State, APC will still win directly or indirectly and you understand what I mean,” he said. In another development, a group, the Dapo Abiodun Youth Movement (DAYM), has called on Amosun to stop “dropping the name of Buhari for his democratic motives.” In a statement in Abeokuta yesterday, the group advised the governor to heed “the warning” the President allegedly issued asking people to desist from dropping his name. The statement, signed by DAYM state Co-ordinator, Nuberu Olufemi, said “the adoption of another man’s personality to influence or gain advantages, be it political, financial, social and cultural over unsuspecting masses, is nothing but classical fraudulent practice.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .