Nigerian president Muhammadu Buhari has said the country’s democratic system of government is responsible for his ‘slow performance’ since elected in 2015. Buhari, who was a former military ruler in Nigeria from December 1983 to August 1985, said the processes in the democratic system makes government less decisive compared to the military. “Fighting corruption. Yes, we are slow because the system is slow. It’s not Baba that is slow but it is the system so I am going by this system and I hope we will make it,” Buhari said. “I told you what I did when I was in uniform but now when I have to go by this system (Democracy,) where people have to be arrested and then prosecuted, taken to court and then with evidence.” The president, as a candidate in 2014 campaigned on three focal points of security, reviving the economy and fight against corruption. The president said his decision to play by democratic rules of government has made critics nickname him “Baba go slow”. “We will collect back what they had taken illegally and for doing that, people are calling me ‘Baba go slow’.” He, however, said, “I am going slowly but whatever the case, I will not stop pointing fingers at those who have abused trust by taking money that does not belong to them. I will keep on trying to do my best for this country and get back what belongs to the country.” Buhari said the focus for his re-election campaign had not changed from what the All Progressives Congress (APC) outlined in 2015. He said his campaign which will commence in geopolitical zones will focus on the issue of fighting corruption, insecurity and improving the economy. “The three fundamental things we campaigned with are still very relevant. On improving the economy, we have done well in agriculture, and those who embraced farming are not regretting it.” “We are now attaining food security. “The third thing with which we will campaign is the issue of corruption. We will go from geopolitical zone to geopolitical zone, to remind the people of our promises in 2015,” Buhari said. Buhari will begin his re-election campaign at the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium, Uyo, Akwa Ibom on Friday, December 28. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .