 PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan  Addressing journalists in Lagos yesterday, the national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said that “everything APC is doing in less than two months to the elections indicates its desperation to rig PDP out of the contest in whatever form.” Ologbondiyan also urged INEC, security agencies and others to place the interest of Nigeria above other interests.According to him, APC has lost the confidence Nigerians reposed in it in 2015 because most people believe that they are more impoverished under President Muhammadu Buhari than they were during the era of PDP, and (APC) having realised it is no longer popular, the only means it could retain power is to rig the election. The PDP spokesman cited the “manipulation” of the last governorship elections in Edo, Ekiti and Osun states.Said he: “If the ruling party hopes to repeat what it did in the last three governorship elections next year, we are going to burst their plans.”He dismissed the insinuation that some south east and south south governors had pledged to support Buhari in the 2019 election against their party’s presidential flag-bearer, Atiku Abubakar. “I find it strange to believe that any PDP governor would do that. It may not be out of place to say that the ruling party is desperate to coerce anybody using federal might, but the coming elections is about Nigerians and Nigeria.” In another development, Ogun State deputy governorship candidate of APC, Mrs. Noimot Salako-Oyedele, has said that his principal, Dr. Dapo Abiodun, would ensure prompt delivery of good governance in the state, if elected in 2019. Speaking at a meeting held in her Ota Ward 3, Ado Odo Council, Salako-Oyedele unveiled APC’s roadmap for the state and expressed gratitude to her constituency for their support.The “incoming” APC government, according to her, has formulated plans of action to alleviate the plight of Ogun people in the areas of qualitative healthcare, education, pension and economic empowerment among others. She explained that the administration would provide free healthcare for under-six children, while existing healthcare facilities would be revamped and new ones constructed. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .