 [FILE] Lagos State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate, Jimi Agbaje (left) and his running mate, Haleemat Oluyemisi Busari, during the launch of his campaign in Lagos… at the weekend.<br />  Agbaje, in a statement signed by his director of media and publicity, Felix Oboagwina, therefore called on Tinubu to set the people free. He was reacting to Tinubu’s mockery of his stance that Lagos needs freedom from Alphabeta Consulting. Tinubu had mocked Agbaje by asking him to learn a trade, if he wanted freedom. “Pharaoh, you must let our people go. Apparently, the APC leader has lost touch with reality. Otherwise, he would know that, like the children of Israel, Lagosians are groaning under the taskmaster that Tinubu and his cronies have turned themselves into in this state that should rate as Nigeria’s foremost. “We identify with our vulcanisers, tailors and all craftsmen who have the joy of duly-earned freedom after their apprenticeship. “But it is apparent that, unlike them, those who have gotten used to filthy lucre and the dividends of corruption cannot savour the joy that comes with the legitimate sweat and labour of hardworking artisans.” According to Agbaje, Lagosians will be freed from Tinubu and his ilk during the 2019 polls, as Pharaoh was forced to allow the Israelites have their freedom after his people were hit by plagues. He identified Tinubu as the head of a vested interest that has turned Lagos into a private enterprise. “You wake up one morning and find that, like the Jews in Poland during the Second World War, you have a toll gate caging you in; and you must pay a toll to leave and return to your home and birthplace in which you used to freely move. You need freedom from those tolls.” Meanwhile, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode and his wife, Bolanle, yesterday, said that Nigeria would have been a better place with no hate and violence, if the citizens had emulated Jesus Christ. They said this at the 2018 Lagos Christmas Carol Service themed ‘The light of the world’. Mrs. Ambode, in her welcome address, imagined what the world would be if everyone had the qualities of Jesus Christ. According to her, it would have been a society where love reigns supreme with joy, peace and harmony. “Of course, we cannot be Jesus Christ; but we can imbibe his teachings and strive hard to emulate his qualities of humility, love for all, fairness, selflessness and consideration for fellow humans, among others.” The governor, in his goodwill message, corroborated his wife that the world would be a better place, if the citizens emulate Jesus, adding that the carol is one of the many ways to appreciate the sacrifice of Jesus Christ for mankind. “If God had not given us a chance of redemption through Christ; if he had insisted on vengeful action based on the sinfulness of the world,  what will be the story of mankind?” he wondered. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .