Personnel of Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) battling to quench an inferno at a manufacturing company in Oshodi axis of Lagos recently Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) on Wednesday warned persons in the habit of attacking emergency responders to desist from such acts. LASEMA General Manager, Adesina Tiamiyu, gave the warning in Ikeja while citing incidents of attacks on emergency officials. He said LASEMA operatives around Obanikoro, Ikorodu Road and Ejigbo areas of Lagos were injured with vehicles damaged. Tiamiyu, however, noted that perpetrators of such acts would be prosecuted if caught in the act. The LASEMA boss stated that the deplorable act was mostly perpetrated by persons without needed roles to play at an emergency scene. Instead, they impede the operation of the emergency officers. “Emergency workers should be seen as your friend coming to give help to people in distress as well as salvage properties during emergency situations such as road traffic accident, fire outbreak,” Tiamiyu said. He pleaded that the officials should be allowed to “carry out their assigned duties without any hindrance to avoid unnecessary loss of lives and properties,” He said persons causing hindrance to emergency responders put their lives at risk of attack and injuries. Tiamiyu disclosed that the operations of the agency have been extended to other parts of the State, which includes Lekki by Admiralty Way, Onipanu on Ikorodu Road and Cappa Dispatch Centre, Oshodi equipped with various rescue equipment and recovery vehicles. He urged Lagosians to call the emergency numbers during an emergency situation, providing the accurate address of the scene and not to resort to self-help before calling the numbers as well as giving. Tiamiyu appealed to motorists to always ensure they give right of way to all emergency vehicles blaring siren while heading to an emergency scene. He stated that security operatives have been directed to arrest and prosecute persons and motorists restricting emergency rescue operations. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .