 Authentic All Progressives Grand Alliance (AAPGA) governorship candidate for 2019 election in Abia State, Dr Alex Oti, addressing supporters; his wife, Priscilla (right) and his running mate, Dr. Uche Eme Uche (left), during a sensitization visit to Igbo traders in Lagos recently.  Obiano was accused of unilaterally endorsing President Muhammadu Buhari for the 2019 elections despite that APGA has Gen. John Gbor (rtd) as its presidential standard-bearer and without recourse to the appropriate caucuses of the party and it’s members. AAPGA said the governor has by his action brought APGA to ridicule, odium, and made it a laughing stock in the eyes of reasonable Nigerians, just as they accused him of being guilty of anti-party activity and breach of Article 22(2D) of the party’s constitution. It will be recalled that accusations of bribery amid non-conduct of election trailed the nomination of candidates for the 2019 poll following which the group said APGA is no longer being run as a political party, but as a private limited liability company. At a press conference in Abuja yesterday, national chairman of the group claiming authenticity of the party, Deacon Jerry Obasi, said APGA members have to decide whether to continue on the “evil trajectory of impunity and political villainy or adopt a strategic template to guarantee the revival of the fundamental ideas that propelled the formation of APGA.” Obasi said the original and foundational ideology of APGA is that it should be inclusive and guarantee the rights of members to express themselves in line with democratic principles, but regretted that it was obvious from prevailing circumstances that the party has derailed and lost the moral compass that endeared it to marginalised Nigerians. Obasi added: “There is urgent need, therefore, for loyal and genuine members of the party to embark on a programme that would bring back the party to the original ideas. This programme would involve the reconciliation and unification of all those that fought through thick and thin to ensure that APGA serves the purpose of political emancipation of all oppressed people.” According to the chairman, the new AAPGA intends to reach out to all those who have suffered injustice, impunity and deprivation with a view to refocusing the party in line with the original ideology and principles. “We are determined to ensure that APGA should not suffer extinction in the hands of political travellers, especially those who are without APGA membership cards yet masquerading as leaders at the highest echelon of the party,” he added. Further on the resolutions from the extraordinary national executive committee of the party’s new group, Dr. Victor Oye, the embattled APGA national chairman, was also asked to resign from his position as chairman for failing to improve the fortunes and good image of the party. Obasi further stated, “He has rather taken APGA beneath the point he met it. At no time in its history has a chairman of APGA been so associated with widespread accusations of bribery, extortion and other unwholesome acts.” “The complaints from Imo, Abia and Anambra State chapters of APGA, to mention but a few, detailing the alleged exchange of bribes in foreign and local currencies, are too weighty to be swept under the carpet,” he added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .