 [file photo] EFCC  The judge made the pronouncement after listening to the prayers by counsel to the first, second and third defendants.
Dakingari and the other accused persons, Sunday Dogoyaro and Garba Kamba, are standing trial over a 13-count charge bordering on conspiracy and money laundering levelled against them by the EFCC. The lead counsel to the EFCC, J.A Ojogbane, told the court that the defendants should take their pleas, and that the 13-count charge should be read to them for the trial to begin. He said his team was ready for the trial along with their witnesses. The defendants pleaded not guilty to all the charges.The counsel to the first defendant, Adegboyega Awomolo (SAN), while applying for bail, told the court that his client was a former governor of Kebbi State without record of criminal cases, arguing that he would not jumped bail if granted. Awomolo also pleaded that the judge rule in interim on his client’s bail application by remanding him in EFCC custody in either Kebbi or Sokoto State to avoid the long distance he would have to travel to Kano State, where the zonal office of the EFCC is located. The counsel to the second defendant, O. A. Dada, in his application for bail supported with a 21-paragraph affidavit, argued that if granted bail, his client would not jump it, as he has been punctual consistently since the commencement of the case. He also pleaded that if his client would be remanded, he would ally with the submission of the 1st defendant that the EFCC custody in Birnin-Kebbi and Sokoto State should be considered. Counsel to the 3rd defendant, Ahmed Fingilla, argued that his client had represented Nigeria in many countries as a diplomat with unblemished record. Fingilla, thereafter, pleaded that his client be remanded in EFCC custody in Birnin-Kebbi or Sokoto State.The EFCC counsel, who did not object to the bail application, urged the court to use its discretion in granting it. Justice Onu ordered that the three defendants be remanded in Birnin-Kebbi office of the EFCC pending the final ruling on their bail application on December 10,2018.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .