 Aisha Buhari  My first encounter with a defiant female character in literature was through the Greek dramatist Sophocles in his eponymous play fittingly titled after the heroine Antigone which I read first year in the university. My drama teacher, Dr. Eugene Steele employed an expression to capture the essence of that deathly-brave heroine which has remained somewhat etched in my memory some 40 odd years after that intellectual exchange: Antigone is an anomaly! To be sure I have since encountered defiant and assertive ladies in different spheres of life. In politics, history, movies, academia, church and social circles! To Nigerians, I dare say, especially to me and to persons of like mind including my senior friend, Dr. Alex Thomopulos, Hajia Aisha Buhari our exquisitely beautiful, regal, frankly brutal and courageous First Lady is an anomaly, an unusual person, an unusual wife in the philistine political climate which we currently endure in our ravaged country. I have therefore chosen Nigeria’s First Lady as my Person of the Year!  I was invited to the presence of her courage when she spoke up against a cabal that had hijacked power from her husband. As we all know her husband had ridden on the crest of his strong anti-corruption stance to win the general elections in 2015. Although he later casually dismissed her in far away Germany as a person of the ‘other room’, she has certainly proclaimed and acted boldly against the ‘other room’ compartmentalisation.
     
In our country as in the continent of Africa a woman is a second class citizen. The late inimitable Nigerian writer Buchi Emecheta has demonstrated this in her novels. A woman is meant to remain in the background in religion, family decisions, marriage rites and matters which concern the community. In the north generally, a woman is not more than an ornament. Some still keep their women, as they are perhaps entitled to, in purdah or kule. The dominant culture, deepened by the predominant Islamic religion promotes and sustains this narrative. It is a conservative society. Its traditional norms make the emergence of an Aisha Buhari as a critic of her husband’s administration impossible, indeed a taboo.
   
It is against this background that I adjudge Aisha Buhari an unusual person. As First Lady there are perks of office. These perks could be lost at the nod of the head of the establishment. As a wife from the conservative north she has her socially-constructed and culturally-reinforced limitations. It is their way of life. They are not as brazen as women of the southern part of Nigeria. The men keep them where they think they belong – in the confines of their home. In Antigone, Ismene, Antigone’s sister says: “Shall we not perish wretchedest of all / If in defiance of the law we cross/ A monarch’s will? –weak women, think of that / Not framed by nature to contend with men’.      
   
Her recent open declaration that two unelected men had seized power from the President was shocking. No one could controvert her. She had earlier on openly expressed doubts about the APC chairman and how he had managed the congresses across the country. Her first outing on this course of speaking out/up was when she acknowledged the presence of a cabal who did not participate in bringing PMB to office.
   
It is safe to assume that this beautiful wife had remonstrated with her husband privately. She may have been prevented by the powers-that-be from reaching her husband. She therefore put the interest of State above loyalty to husband. Some have said that she was actually complaining about being sidelined from state affairs. I doubt this. If she wanted big money, big contracts a talk with a loyal minister or state governor would fetch her enough largesse. She is not self-serving in my view. It was for this reason I dismissed the Jibrin doppelganger nonsense when it entered national discourse. I have never met her in person. But the Aisha personality that has emerged in the public space would cry blue murder if the main occupant of Aso Rock were a clone.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .