 Mark Okoye (left), Biodun Shobanjo, Samson Itodo (Winner of Prize For Young Person Of The Year), Adebola Williams and Ngozi Nwonji  The event had in attendance several leading personalities in government, politics, and business such as the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi; Minister of Trade and Investment, Okechukwu Enelamah; Chairman, First Bank of Nigeria, Ibukun Awosika; Chairman, Troyka Holdings, Biodun Shobanjo; CEO, Sahara Group, Tonye Cole; Presidential Candidate, Young Progressive Party, Kingsley Moghalu;  Presidential Candidate, Allied Congress Party of Nigeria, Obiageli Ezekwesili; Jumoke Adenowo; Omotola Jolade-Ekeinde; Deola Sagoe and more. Themed Nigeria’s New Tribe, The Future Awards Africa 2018 acknowledged the inspiring work and initiatives of nominees, celebrating the impact made through social enterprise and creativity in the year under review. The annual awards event celebrates a new class of innovators, philanthropists, activists, technocrats and creators promoting the shared mission of changing the African narrative. Some of the winners at the 2018 edition are Zainab Balogun (Prize for Acting); Ahmed Musa (Prize for Sports); Simisola; Uche Kenneth (Prize for Advocacy); Chidi Ajaere (Prize for Business); Ayodele Sipasi Olalekan (Prize for Agriculture); Founders of Piggybank, Odunayo Eweniyi, Joshua Chibueze and Somtochukwu Ifezue (Prize for Technology); Emmanuel Oyeleke (Prize for Photography); Mark Angel (Prize for Comedy); Tosin ‘The Style Infidel’ Ogundadegbe (Prize for Fashion); Samson Itodo (Young Person of the Year) and many others. Others are John Obidi (Prize for New Media); Uche Kenneth Udekwe (Prize for Advocacy); Nadine Ibrahim (Prize for screen producer); Olive Emodi (Prize for OAP TV); Itodo Anthony (University of Sussex Prize for Education; Temi Marcella Awogboro (Prize for Professional Service); Daniel Philemon Saradau (Prize for Public service); Linus Unah (Prize for Journalism); Adebola Kekere Ekun (Prize for Creativity) and Foluwake Folustorms Ogunkeye (Tosyn Bucknor Prize for OAP Radio). Meanwhile, Amstel Malta brand has once again demonstrated its support for Nigerians stepping into the spotlight by awarding Samson Itodo as the Young Person of the Year at the 2018 Future Awards Africa.
 
Samson Itodo took home the much-coveted award for his role in challenging the pre-independence laws that set the ages for participation in Federal, State and Local Government elections through the Not Too Young To Run bill.
 
Amstel Malta has for a long time, continued to play an active role in uplifting core lifestyle interests of Nigerians’ like in film and fitness with platforms such as the Amstel Malta Box Office, Act The Part online competition, Amstel Malta Showtime, and support of events like the AMVCAs, FitFamFest and Okpekpe Race among others.Speaking at the ceremony, the Marketing Director, Nigerian Breweries Plc., Emmanuel Oriakhi, said,
 
‘“Amstel Malta, is proud to be a part of this process of rewarding young Nigerians for their efforts in their individual journeys. It is quite important for us to encourage Nigerians to be their best no matter where they find themselves. Amstel Malta’s readiness to support laudable projects like this further solidifies the brand’s stance at applauding excellence.”
 
“Amstel Malta is set to do more. We have big plans in place and we urge everyone to prepare for the greater things ahead”, Oriakhi added.The Future Awards, which was launched in 2005, rewards deserving young Nigerians and Africans who have carved a niche for themselves in their chosen field. The awards celebrate young people who have made outstanding achievements in the year. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .