PHOTO: NGSuper_Falcons As far as former International, Etim Esin, is concerned, Super Falcons’ successful defence of the Africa Women Cup of Nations (AWCON) in Cameroon remains the country’s major football highpoint of the outgoing 2018. The Super Falcons defeated the Banyana Banyana of South Africa 4-3 on penalties to win a record ninth title. It was also the third time the most successful nation in Africa would deny South Africa the continent’s most priced laurel. Speaking to The Guardian, yesterday, Esin said despite the team not being given the same treatment as the male counterparts, the girls still did wonders with the little preparations they had. “My major highpoint for the 2018 calendar in football remains Super Falcons’ victory at AWCON against all odds. The girls should be encouraged as much as the Super Eagles are. “Support for these girls should also be to the highest level. The same number of sponsors that they have for the Super Eagles should also be the same for the Super Falcons. Even the women’s league should also be structured in a way that would encourage them to have more players competing for positions in the women’s national team,” he said. The former Eagles’ midfield maestro said even though the Super Eagles did their best at Russia 2018, the final outcome of their performance at the tournament was not good enough. “Eagles gave a good performance at the World Cup, but their overall performance in Russia this year was not good enough, he said. Esin, however, added that the emergence of former Eagles’ winger, Tijani Babaginda, as the president of the National Association of Nigerian Professional Footballers (NANPF), gladdened his heart, and was good for the future of current footballers. “The emergence of Babaginda as the president of NANPF to me was another highpoint of 2018. His experience and international exposure will be brought to bear. The welfare of the players after retirement, their benefits, and other things I believe, will be handled well by Babaginda. This is not even for my generation, but for those that are currently in active football,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .