 [FILE] Lagos PDP Gubernatorial candidate, Agbaje  Agbaje made the call in Lagos at the unveiling of 2018 Traders’ Cup tagged Atiku Traders’ Cup, organised by Unit2Unit Initiative, a non-governmental organisation committed to good governance, grassroots
mobilisation and sustainable re-orientation. He said: “This campaign is about freedom from bondage. This is time to give Lagos its long overdue freedom. Stand by PDP and let the votes count. Cast your votes and protect them. Use the power of your number to communicate. You have both the economic and political power.” Senate President Bukola Saraki, who is the director-general of PDP Presidential Campaign Organisation, said that the PDP would face stiff battle from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the security agencies in the election. Represented at the event by Onuoha Nnaji, the number three citizen stated that “despite the perceived obstacles, the party is confident of victory.” He corroborated Agbaje when he noted that “one of the biggest challenges in the country’s elections is the ability of the electorate to protect their votes.” However, Edo State chapter of the party, yesterday, charged Nigerians of voting age to come out en masse and vote wisely for a better Nigeria. The chairman, Dan Orbih, gave the charge during the party’s official campaign flag-off in Sabongida-Ora and Afuze, headquarters of Owan West and Owan East councils. Orbih, who alleged that the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) was not campaigning because it had nothing to show, urged Nigerians to take the challenges of insecurity, poverty and unemployment seriously and vote wisely in the 2019. He added: “This election is not about PDP or APC. It is about Nigerians calling for a change, so that they can have the good things of life. I have been to several towns and communities in the state. There is nothing to show that we have had a government for past nine to 10 years.” Orbih tasked the party’s leaders at the council levels on the need for aggressive mobilisation for the party’s victory, emphasising the need for total support for PDP candidates in the coming election. “Let us take seriously the challenges before us, so that as we prepare for the election, we defend the interest of the PDP, not only where you vote, but also where results would be collated,” Orbih said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .