 Oritsefemi  The concert was organized to celebrate the 40th anniversary of Trophy Lager brand, which is widely accepted as the Honourable beer and referred to as the pride of the Southwest, owing to the fact that it is deeply rooted in the region’s socio-cultural values and loved by consumers because of its distinctive taste and quality.Tagged ‘Honourable Concert’, the event drew a mammoth crowd, who came to party and got refreshed with the beer brand, which was more than available at the venue of the concert. The audience was not disappointed as the artistes rocked them with their hit songs, reeling them out one after the other, while the audience sang and dance along. Speaking about concert, the National Sales Director, International Breweries, Godwin Oche said, “the concert is our way of appreciating our long standing consumers who have helped the brand by their continuous patronage. We wanted them to have this sense of belonging, have fun with the brand and make them know that they are the reason we are able to celebrate this milestone.” The party kicked off with a superlative performance from the Double Wahala crooner, Oritsefemi, who stepped on the stage with the audience screaming out his name. He started his performance with his hit song Igbeyawo with the reoccurring lyrics Gudu gudu meje, a song composed to enlighten the public on how serious the marriage institution should be taken right from the wedding ceremony. He followed Better, a song which calls for a better society while also highlighting some of the ills and struggles the average Nigerian go through daily. He moved on to the very popular collaboration he had with Black Magic titled Pass You By. As he delivered the chorus of the song, “Baba God blessing nor go pass you by He go bless you sotay them go ask you why”, the audience in their numbers raise one hand up to the sky and put the other on their chest in affirmation and acceptance that it was a prayer being said for them. He climaxed his performance with his most popular hit song Double Wahala. As he shouted “Okpolo eye nor open eye”, the crowd went wild in excitement and sang along with him. Satisfied with his performance, the audience gave him a rapturous ovation as he exited the stage. Speaking after his performance, Oritsefemi said he understood the significance of the celebration of the Trophy brand. “Any brand that has spent 40 years in Nigeria has stood the test of time. Not every brand can withstand the rigor of the business environment in Nigeria. For Trophy to be celebrating its 40th Anniversary It was only natural for me to put in my best for my fans and of course for the consumers of this fantastic brand.” Next up was one half of the duo Artquake, who took the audience through songs such as Abulelawa, Asiko, and Farabale. The highpoint of his performance was the rendition of the hit single, Alanta, which got the crowd dancing the unique dance steps that was introduced to go along with the song. The Orobokibo crooner, Wasiu Alabi well known as Pasuma Wonder, showed his dexterity at making songs, as he performed songs off the cuff using the occasion to entertain everyone. Performing with a live band, he showed why he is one of the most sought after musician in the fuji genre. Highpoint of his performance was the presentation of cheques to winners of the ongoing National Consumer Promotion by Trophy Lager tagged Honourable Millionaires Promo. Four winners emerged as winners of one million naira while four others won consolation cash prize of forty thousand naira each. Marketing Director, Tolulope Adedeji, said that the Honourable Millionaires Promo was initiated with the mindset of rewarding the loyal consumers of Trophy. “It is our way of saying thank you for staying true to our brand all these years. They are the reason we are in business via their unflinching patronage. On our part, we promise to continue to avail our consumers the best quality of brands in their categories in the market,” she stated. Rave of the moment and Askamaya crooner, Teni lived up to her billing as a captivating artiste as she delivered her rave making singles Fargin, Askamaya and Case. She wowed the audience, especially the female folks, who danced, raising their hands to the air. There is no doubt of the fact, everyone had a nice evening as it one the audience will reminisce over long time. The concert came to a close at the dawn of the next day. Next stop for the concert train is Ilesa.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .