• Three medical personnel abducted in Ondo, kidnappers demand N50m ransom
• Police arrest two vigilance group members for allegedly killing youngman in Bauchi Eight workers of Osun College of Technology, Esa-Oke were on Tuesday kidnapped by unidentified gunmen. The Public Relations Officer of the college, Mr. Adewale Oyekanmi, made this known in a phone interview with newsmen in Osogbo. According to him, the gunmen also shot dead another worker who attempted to escape from the scene of the incident at about 4:30p.m. Oyekanmi explained that the gunmen blocked Esa-Oke Road (leading to the college campus), stopped several vehicles including the victims’ vehicles and abducted them. “So far, the gunmen have not made contact with the families of the kidnapped persons or with the college management. The police, Department of State Security (DSS) and men of the OPC are combing the bushes to see if they can rescue the victims,” he said. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mrs. Folashade Odoro, said the police were aware of the matter, adding that it would soon issue an official statement. Meanwhile, in Ondo State, tension gripped the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Owo, in Owo Local Government Area yesterday as suspected kidnappers forcefully whisked away three health personnel working with the centre. The Guardian gathered that the health workers were abducted on the failed portion of Emure-Ile/Owo road, which is a few kilometres away from Akure and the ancient Owo town. According to sources, the three victims included a medical doctor, a nurse and a record officer of the centre on their way to work. A close source and colleague of the victims, who pleaded anonymity, recounted that the victims were waylaid by the suspected kidnappers and whisked away. She added that the kidnappers had already contacted the family of the abducted medical personnel and demanded the sum of N50 million as ransom, leaving all FMC staff in utter disarray. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Femi Joseph, advised families of the victims to keep calm and cooperate with the police in its investigation, assuring them the police would ensure their release. In another development, the Bauchi State police command has nabbed two vigilance group men for gunning down a young man identified as Abbati Mahmud at Igbo Quarters in Bauchi Metropolis. According to the command’s spokesperson, DSP Kamal Datti Abubakar, who confirmed the incident to The Guardian yesterday, the police received a report about the death of a young man who was allegedly shot dead by a vigilante at Igbo quarters. “So far, we have arrested two persons in connection with the incident. “Even police officers who use riffle have laws guiding them, talk less of vigilance group members. They should not take laws into their hands,” he said adding that vigilance groups must forward their suspects to the police for proper investigation and prosecution. According to an eyewitness, who identified himself as Shehu, “the vigilante came to the deceased shop at Igbo Quarters at about 8:00p.m. They said they came to shave. They left and returned in large numbers saying they heard some people telling them nonsense. “An argument ensued and Abbati took some of his siblings inside in one room, they were eight inside the room. One of the vigilantes forced the window, put his gun and shot Abbati to death. We discovered many bullets in his body, one of the bullets hit another person identified as Aliyu on his leg and injured him,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .