It’s sad news for fans of Justin Timberlake as it has been ann0unced that he is done singing this year. The announcement was made by the 37-year-old hit-maker on social media revealing that he has been been sidelined through January with bruised vocal cords, a condition that has caused him to cancel and postpone a slew of shows on his “Man Of The Woods” tour. The Memphis, Tennessee native wrote, “Hey guys, I’m sure you have heard that I’ve had to postpone several tour dates due to bruised vocal cords. My vocal cords are healing, but they are not all the way back to normal, so my doctors want me to continue to rest my voice.” The 37-year-old “Sexy Back” said that his doctors “have asked me to hold off on singing until next month” as he recuperates from the ailment. The “Cry Me a River” crooner had a relatively busy schedule for the remainder of the month, with dates on tap in St. Louis, Missouri; Indianapolis, Indiana; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Buffalo, New York; and two shows at the Mohegan Sun Arena in Uncasville, Connecticut set for later in the month. “I’m really sorry, I want to be back on the stage and I am doing all I can to get there quickly,” Timberlake wrote. ‘Thank you for understanding – I see all of your posts and I appreciate the support and the love.” It would be recalled that the “Say Something” crooner had earlier postponed his performance at Oakland, California’s Oracle Arena on Wednesday, December 5, hours before he was scheduled to take stage. He had cited  problems from bruised vocal chords. Timberlake also postponed one of his gigs at LA’s Staples Center back on November 27. His Los Angeles concert was to have been his first back since the injury. Last month, doctors ordered the New York Times best-selling author of
“Hindsight”to cancel his performance at Madison Square Garden in New York City and rest. His vocal chords issue didn’t stop him and his wife, Jessica Biel to make an appearance on “The Tonight Show” starring Jimmy Fallon on November 1, although he was not allowed to speak. Instead, Fallon and Biel played the “Best Friends Challenge” to find out who knew Timberlake better and the chat show host won, much to her chagrin.