Nigeria’s power, works, and housing ministerBabatunde Fashola, said power supply in the last three year had improved since election of Muhammadu Buhari as president in 2015. Fashola, who spoke on Channels Television’s  Sunday Politics, said the government’s strides in power supply have reduced the rate at which Nigerians purchase petroleum products. “Nigerians will tell you, on the average, that they are spending less money on buying diesel, they are spending less money on buying petrol for their generators,” Fashola said. While the people still spend money on fuel in the case of a power outage, Fashola insisted that the case was not the same compared to the previous administration. He argued states like Kebbi State were getting about 24 hours of power supply because there was a local arrangement in place to ensure people pay for the electricity consumed. Fashola, a former governor of Lagos state, who said the government was yet to completely fulfil its promise, alleged that critics would not argue the improvement in the power sector. According to him, “We set very high aspirations and we will get there, and what I am saying today is that we have improved on what we met, and that is unarguable and unimpeachable.” “And we have done so in shorter time and with less resources. Let their (the critics) sympathisers continue to weaponise the challenges they created but the truth is that we are the ones solving the problems that we met,” Fashola said. Fashola explained that upon his assumption of duty in 2015, he set out an agenda for the ministry that it would first seek to achieve incremental power, saying it was already yielding results. The minister said, “We are producing more power than what we met; we are transmitting more power than what we met, and we are distributing more power than what we met.” Fashola noted that the Buhari administration had the solution to power challenges in the country and that was why it sought election in 2015. According to him, “I met 4,000MW; we have added three (thousand) more – 1,000MW per year. Our raw rate is a thousand megawatts (MW) every year.” He said, “That’s why we sought the office because we think we are better than them and we have proven that we are.” Fashola, however, said the power sector needs more investment to improve the availability of electricity in the country. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .