 [FILE PHOTO] Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje  The governor spoke when he flagged off All Progressives Congress (APC) campaigns for Kano Central at Kano Pillars Stadium in Sabon Gari, Kano. Six members of the Kwankwasiyya group, including General Bello Idris (retired,) moved over from Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to APC at the occasion. This is just as a chieftain of APC and Managing Director of Kano Electricity Distribution Company (KEDCO), Dr. Jamilu Isyaku Gwamna, disclosed that on a deeper examination, President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration ranks as the best since Nigeria returned to democratic rule in 1999. Gwamna, who is a prominent APC bigwig from Gombe, said the anti-corruption campaign of the current administration is an indication that the President is committed to building a better Nigeria. He disclosed that President Buhari’s efforts at addressing the key challenges hindering the country’s growth are commendable, especially after the PDP had plundered Nigeria’s economy, thereby making governance difficult to run. He reiterated that the APC administration has made landmark achievements that address the foundational challenges of the country, stressing that the previous administration entrenched corruption in the system. While noting that good governance was hard to come by amid corruption, Gwamna said President Buhari has done well in key areas such as fighting corruption, addressing the power sector challenges and empowering the youth and elderly in the country through social intervention programmes. He stated: “The gains of this administration within nearly four years by President Buhari is commendable and I award it as the best administration Nigerians ever had, since we returned to democracy in 1999. The major challenge that, if ignored, will continue to hamper the growth and development of Nigeria is corruption. Fighting corruption is a landmark achievement because it ensures that money meant for governance is not diverted. “Good governance is difficult in a society where there is corruption. This is why the president has made it a priority issue to be addressed unlike the previous PDP-led administration that entrenched corruption into our society. Corruption has been our major challenge and by fighting it, the current administration is protecting the future and that is why our external reserve has risen to nearly 43 billion dollars. “An administration that has empowered over 500,000 youths with N30, 000 monthly, given thousands of old persons N5, 000 monthly stipends, paid pensions arrears to those who were abandoned by the PDP government deserves commendations.” The KEDCO boss said reforms in the power sector in the last three years, which has added 3000MW to the national grid, is encouraging, adding that Nigeria would have resolved the challenge of power if only PDP administration had done what APC is doing, it would have given 16,000MW in their 16 years. But, describing Senator Kwankwaso of political insensitivity, Ganduje vowed to join forces with the people of Kano Central to replace him with Mallam Ibrahim Shekarau. Gadunje added: “Kwankwaso’s three and half years at the Senate have brought no political dividends to the people of Kano Central because the Senator has turned deaf ears to the cries of his people and made no positive contributions to activities of the senate. He is now deaf, dumb and blind and we promise you to replace him with a better candidate in 2019.” He said Kwankwaso has become politically crippled and as a result, the need for the people of Kano State to replace him with Ibrahim Shekarau whom he described as a man of the people, whose political achievements over the years exceed those of Kwankwaso. Danbazzau, a former Commissioner for Special Duties during Kwankwaso’s regime, renounced his membership of the Kwankwasiya movement alongside six others, at the political rally. Danbazau blamed Kwankwaso’s selfish interest and autocratic nature for his decision to join APC, even as he accused the Senator of destroying virtually everything they worked for to build the Kwankwasiya faction of the APC. He stated: “It is important to remember that I was one of the persons who played significant roles in the formation of Kwankwasiyya Movement. The selfish interest of Senator Kwankwaso has destroyed everything we worked for. His personal interest has overshadowed our good ideas. “We pondered on these things and our future and decided to renounce our loyalty to him, and join forces with Governor Ganduje because of his good initiatives and political ideologues, which have brought about positive changes to the state.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .