Hollywood actor, Dwayne Johnson has surprised his mother, Ata Johnson with a brand new home for Christmas. Taking to Instagram to share the video of him gifting her the house, the former wrestler captured the emotional moment his mom was overwhelmed with joy on receiving the gift. The 46-year-old captioned the post, “This one felt good. Surprise! Bought my mom a new home for Christmas.
All our lives growing up we lived in little apartments all across the country. Lived like gypsies on the road from one state to another.
The first home my parents ever lived in was the one I bought for them in 1999.
They divorced about 5yrs later and as with life, stuff happens and things got a little complicated. Since then I always made sure my mom and dad have everything they’ll ever need – houses, cars etc.
But the house this time is a special one and the timing is very meaningful. I told her to treat this card like it’s “Willy Wonka’s Golden Ticket” because she gets to choose any home she wants – anywhere she wants.
I always say, if you got a good mama, then you gotta pretty good shot at becoming a decent human being. And somehow, somewhere along the line I became one lucky SOB to be able to make stuff like this happen.
Merry Christmas Ma and WOOOHOOO enjoy your new home. Dwanta ??” Watch the emotional video below:   This one felt good.  Surprise! Bought my mom a new home for Christmas.  All our lives growing up we lived in little apartments all across the country. Lived like gypsies on the road from one state to another.  The first home my parents ever lived in was the one I bought for them in 1999.  They divorced about 5yrs later and as with life, stuff happens and things got a little complicated.  Since then I always made sure my mom and dad have everything they’ll ever need – houses, cars etc.  But the house this time is a special one and the timing is very meaningful.  I told her to treat this card like it’s “Willy Wonka’s Golden Ticket” because she gets to choose any home she wants – anywhere she wants.  I always say, if you got a good mama, then you gotta pretty good shot at becoming a decent human being.  And somehow, somewhere along the line I became one lucky SOB to be able to make stuff like this happen.  Merry Christmas Ma and WOOOHOOO enjoy your new home.  Dwanta A post shared by  therock (@therock) on Dec 29, 2018 at 1:59pm PST 