 Akwa Ibom Governorship candidate, Mr. Nsima Ekere  Ekere, who made the call, yesterday, while inaugurating the campaign council at his campaign office along Four Lanes in Uyo, also unveiled of the manifesto entitled, ‘Akwa Ibom: The New Vision for Collective Prosperity.’ He explained that his manifesto sits on five pillars of Economic Prosperity, Infrastructure and Rural Development, Education, Health and Social Protection, Security, and Governance and Institutional Reforms. The APC standard bearer reminded the campaign council that since 1999 the state has been voting for only one party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), stressing that the people have to be sensitized to know that the time for change has come. He said: “I ordinarily don’t envy you because the task ahead of you is enormous. If anybody tells you it is an easy task that person is not being fair to you, that person is not telling you the truth. The fact of the matter as all of us know is that since 1999, you know that this state and all of us are used to voting for the umbrella. “This is the first time that we are going to be voting APC. Even though the generality of Akwa Ibom people have agreed to vote APC, in 2019, you still have a duty to educate them on how to actually vote APC, Akwa Ibom people want change and are ready for change is not in doubt. Also you have a duty to ensure that you educate them on how to actually accept this change, which they want. “On that note, I want to congratulate you and charge you to work like you never worked before. In fact you don’t have to sleep. After March 2nd after you must have won you can now sleep and get ready for May29. But from today till March 2nd, there shall be no sleep for all of us, including myself. So I welcome you on board “Go round Akwa Ibom state, every person that is a politician of repute is in APC. Every person that knows how to win election is in APC, but more importantly God is with us so you have no excuse not to deliver. Failure is not an option. We are poised to win, we are marching to victory.” Inaugurating the campaign committees, APC state chairman, Mr. Ini Okopido, said the expectations of the party was for all of them to work and ensure that all the candidates, from presidential to state assembly, were delivered at every unit in the state. “And I urge all of you to eschew any form of bitterness. You must eschew anything that could distract us from not achieving victory. Since our governorship flag bearer assumed office as the Managing Director of NDDC, the region has enjoyed peace; oil production has also increased as a result of restoration of that peace in the region. Collectively we will produce result that will bring Obong Nsima Ekere on board in 2019,” he said. Responding, the Chairman Campaign Council, Group Capt. Sam Ewang [rtd] said he has no doubt that with the array of stakeholders that make up the various committees, APC would win elections in Akwa Ibom in 2019. “I am glad that we have men of integrity we have people who would speak and people believe them. And because I am involved APC will win elections in Akwa Ibom come 2019,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .