Ariana Grande can sing and if you have ever doubted it, you will find the proof you ever needed below. The “Thank U, Next” hitmaker just proved to everyone that she has always had an impressive voice when she took to Twitter on December 22 to share two throwback videos of herself singing to Celine Dion songs in 1997. The 25-year-old who was just four-years-old at the time the clips were recorded is seen in a car with her mother, Joan Grande and her older brother, Frankie Grande (who isn’t shown). “what else would you like to sing ? ᵗʰᵉ ⁿᵉˣᵗ ˢᵒⁿᵍ,” Ariana captioned the first video, which shows her happily singing Dion’s song, “The Reason.” At the start of the clip, Joan asks the “One Last Time” singer, “What else would you like to sing?” and the future superstar holds a CD. “The next song,” little Ariana replies before Joan helps her get some strawberry off her cheek. She then starts belting out the strong tune as it plays in the car. In the second clip, Ariana and Joan team up for a duet as they sing along to “Tell Him” by Celine and the legendary Barbra Streisand. “Am I Streisand?” Joan asks Ariana at the beginning. “I’m Barbra Streisand. Am I Celine or Barbra? I’m Celine?” The two start then start singing as Joan reaches out for her daughter’s hand. “we still sing this,” Ariana tweeted about the video. “she’s still Barbara and still this stunning and cute if not more so.” Taking to her own Twitter account, Joan also posted the second video and left a sweet message to Ariana in the caption. “Ariana I love you,” the caption read. “so happy I found this video from 1997, damn, 21 years ago and this is still a most amazing song and you a most amazing singer… and I always knew it!” Watch the clips below: what else would you like to sing ? ᵗʰᵉ ⁿᵉˣᵗ ˢᵒⁿᵍ pic.twitter.com/reVdgMuw9J — Ariana Grande (@ArianaGrande) December 22, 2018   we still sing this  she’s still barbara and still this stunning and cute if not more so  pic.twitter.com/tVHV6cFulH — Ariana Grande (@ArianaGrande) December 22, 2018  Ariana has had an eventful 2018 from getting engaged to Pete Davidson, losing her ex, Mac Miller, calling off her engagement to Davidson to also getting named as Billboard’s Woman of the Year.