 (FILES) In this file photo taken on October 25, 2018, a member of the Sri Lankan web journalist association holds a pposter with the image of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi during a demonstration outside the Saudi Embassy in Colombo. – In a poignant farewell to their father published in The Washington Post, the daughters of slain Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi vowed that “his light would never fade” and that his legacy lived through them. “This is no eulogy, for that would confer a state of closure,” Noha Khashoggi and Razan Jamal Khashoggi wrote in a Post opinion piece published online on November 23, 2018. (Photo by LAKRUWAN WANNIARACHCHI / AFP)  Mohammed bin Salman also told associates in August last year that if he failed to persuade Khashoggi to return to Saudi Arabia, “we could possibly lure him outside Saudi Arabia and make arrangements” — a communication the Central Intelligence Agency said “seems to foreshadow the Saudi operation launched against Khashoggi.” The Journal said it had reviewed excerpts of the highly classified intelligence document, which relied on electronic intercepts and other clandestine information. Khashoggi, a trenchant critic of the crown prince who relocated to Virginia and wrote op-eds for the Washington Post, was killed by Saudi operatives inside the kingdom’s Istanbul consulate on October 2, triggering global condemnation. After initially denying the murder, Saudi Arabia acknowledged some liability but blamed his death on a “rogue” operation. The Journal reported in November that the CIA had concluded Prince Mohammed had likely personally ordered the killing. Read More: Saudi Crown Prince behind Khashoggi murder President Donald Trump, who has been accused of covering for the Saudi leadership, appeared to challenge that assessment about the prince, saying “maybe he did, maybe he didn’t.” The newspaper said that excerpts of the assessment it had not previously reported state that the CIA has “medium-to-high confidence” that Prince Mohammed “personally targeted” Khashoggi and “probably ordered his death” — but added: “To be clear, we lack direct reporting of the Crown Prince issuing a kill order.” The electronic messages were said to have been sent by Prince Mohammed to Saud al-Qahtani, who supervised the 15-man team that killed Khashoggi, the paper said. The contents of the messages weren’t known, it added, citing the assessment, which also did not reveal the format of electronic communication. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .