Super Falcons player being tackled by two Camerounians in their semifinal clash at 2018 Africa Women Cup of Nations in Ghana. Two years after, their winning bonus for the victory against Senegal in 2016 is still ‘hanging’ Two years after the Super Falcons defeated their Senegalese counterparts 2-0 to qualify for the 2016 edition of the Africa Women’s Cup of Nations in Cameroon, their winning bonuses is said to be ‘hanging’ in the secretariat of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF). The situation is said to be giving sports minister, Solomon Dalung a great concern, particularly after the sports ministry had allegedly made the money available to the NFF to be paid to the players and their coaches. The Super Falcons qualified for the 10th Africa Women’s Cup of Nations by beating Senegal 2-0 in a return fixture in April 2016 after a 1-1 draw in Dakar. The players allegedly got only N10, 000 as ‘transportation.’ The Guardian learnt yesterday that Dalung was reminded by some officials of the team recently about their pending winning bonuses for the victory against Senegal in 2016. According to a source, the sports minister was angry to hear about the non-payment saying: “The money has since been given to the NFF because I approved it (the bonus) long ago. If the NFF is yet to pay the money, then something is wrong somewhere. I will personally investigate it.” The Guardian recalls that after the win against Senegal in 2016, the players were allegedly handed N10,000 ($50) as transport fare back to their base. To the players, the amount was a far cry from $4000 and $5000 paid the Super Eagles then for a draw and win respectively. The team, led by coach Florence Omagbemi and assisted by two ex-players, Ann Chiejine and Perpetua Nkwocha went to Cameroun and won the title, beating the Banyana Banyana of South Africa in the semi and host, Lionesses of Cameroun, in the final. The coaches were sacked despite winning the title, following advice by some group of people who wanted to take absolute control of the Super Falcons. However, efforts to get words from the NFF yesterday over the non-payment of team’s winning bonus against Senegal in 2016 were unsuccessful. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .