• Team departs for Malaysia world tourney
The Nigeria Scrabble Federation (NSF), has pleaded with the federal government to honour the scrabble contingent that came out victorious at the just concluded 2018 Africa Scrabble Championship at the Resort centre, Kiriyangi, Kenya. President of Scrabble Federation, Suleiman Gora, who spoke on the victory recorded by Moses Peter at the Africa Scrabble Championship, stated that the feat by the Nigerian in winning the individual trophy had given Nigeria a good image in the international scene. The team won the title in Kenya at the weekend.He noted that honouring the scrabble team would go a long way in spurring the players to winning more laurels for the country in international engagements. “The Nigeria scrabble team deserves the same accolade given to the Super Falcons after winning the African Women Nations Cup in Ghana. I am pleading with the state government to honour the players. This is the 12th time Nigeria is winning the African scramble championship. Seven countries participated with 62 players in attendance. “President Buhari has honoured a scrabble player who won a World Championship in the past, and I believe he can repeat the same gesture with team Nigeria that won the African championship. The Scrabble Federation will present the trophies the team won in Kenya to the Sports Ministry, and seek for a special reception for the players who proved that Nigeria is the best nation in scrabble,” he said. Meanwhile, the NSF has disclosed that reigning Africa champion and second best scrabble player in the World, Moses Peter, will be leading five players to the median edition of the Alchemist Scrabble championship holding in Malaysia. According to the Federation, the World Championship will feature the best countries in scrabble from different continents. NSF said that Nigeria, currently ranked the best scrabble nation in the world ahead of big countries like USA and Great Britain, will represent Africa in Malaysia as the top Africa nation in the board game. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .