 Group Managing Director, Adedayo Amzat(left); Director, Stella Duru; Board Chairman, Babatunde Sanda; and Director, Oluseyi Akinbi, all of Zedcrest Capital Limited at the company’s end-of-year party and formal introduction of board members of the company in Lagos.  According to the company’s Group Managing Director, Adedayo Amzat, the organisation is charting a new growth strategy targeted primarily at the retail opportunities in the market with the aim of creating more wealth for its clients. Amzat said: “After operating in the market for over five years, the time has come to deepen our market penetration. Our Fixed Income and Currencies (FICC) operations have been primarily driven by a focus on wholesale dealing and brokerage to foreign portfolio investors, local pension fund administrators, asset managers and banks. We have identified High Net-worth Individuals (HNIs) and the retail space as new areas of focus and expansion for our Business. “To this end, we will be unveiling bespoke fixed income and wealth management solutions for the HNIs and retail markets through our newly licensed Asset Management subsidiary (Zedcrest Investment Managers) while we continue to serve our wholesale customers through ZedCap Partners, our SEC licensed inter-dealer brokerage business,” said Adedayo. The new Board Chairman, Babatunde Sanda has 36 years cognate experience in economics, business and financial consulting, he has 18 years of experience in auditing and consulting for firms as Coopers & Lybrand, Ernst & Whinney and PriceWaterHouse, where he rose to the position of Senior Consultant in 1990. As well as a banking career, where he rose to the position of Executive Director, Finance at Wema Bank Plc, and as a Managing Director in 2000 of Banque International du Benin, Cotonou. He has held previous appointments in the Central Bank of Nigeria, where he served as Director of Societe General Bank of Nigeria Ltd (while in holding action). Babatunde holds an honours degree in Business Administration from the University of Benin, is an alumnus of the Advanced Management Program of Stanford University, California, USA and has attended various Management and development courses in major international institutes across the globe. He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) and an Associate of the Chartered Taxation Institute of Nigeria. The second board appointee, Stella Duru is the only female Partner in Banwo & Ighodalo’s Energy and Natural Resources Practice Group. Her core areas of practice are Energy & Natural Resources, Project Finance and Corporate Finance. She is renowned for her extensive experience in the power sector and authors articles in leading law publications. Stella has deep experience in oil, gas and power projects in Nigeria and has been involved in World Bank sponsored work streams advising on the power sector reforms in Nigeria. She obtained a law degree from the University of Lagos, Nigeria; and was admitted into the Nigerian Bar in January 2001. Stella is a member of the Nigerian Bar Association, International Bar Association (Section on Energy and Natural Resources Law) and Association of International Petroleum Negotiators. She is also an Associate of the Nigeria Leadership Initiative (a leadership development not-for-profit, affiliated with the Aspen Institute) as well as an Associate WimBiz (an association of Women in Management, Business & Public Service). While commenting on the appointments at the introduction, and award night of the firm, the pioneer and out-going Chairman, Abiola Aderounmu, commended the management of Zedcrest Capital Group for its well acclaimed achievements in the financial markets.Since its establishment in 2013, Zedcrest Capital has steadily grown to become one of the most sought-after securities dealing and proprietary investment firms in Nigeria. “With the newly crafted growth strategy, we are strengthening our board with successful professionals with diverse competencies who will guide the company through the next chapter of its growth trajectory,” Adedayo added.During the course of the event, award prizes were given to outstanding members of staff of the firm, in recognitions of their hard work and performance.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .