The Society of Construction Industry Arbitrators (SCIArb) has enjoined its fellows to live up to expectation and show good examples to younger members. The president and chairman of the Society, Mr. Kola Awodein (SAN) made the charge in Lagos recently, following the induction of 11 new fellows into its College of Fellows. Represented by its 2nd vice president, Femi Fakolade, the president recalled that the Society was one of the earliest arbitration bodies established in Nigeria with the mandate of providing institutional framework for the resolution of disputes through arbitration, conciliation, or other form of Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) in the construction industry. “Today, it has more than 1700 members and 50 Fellows,” he said, urging older fellows to show “good examples to the younger members of our Society.” The new fellows are: an architect, Solomon Zomuche Labafilo; six quantity surveyors –Soji Adeniyi, Pastor Emmanuel Effiong Bassey, Prince Akinboro Aderemi Raifu, Adeleye Adepoju, Mrs Olayinka Kingsley-Otaru and Raheem Abdulbaki. The others are three lawyers: Diane Okoko, Funmi Robert, and Sola Ephraim-Olajuwon. SCIArb Secretary-General, Mr. Emmanuel Dike, said the new fellows underwent rigorous training in the area of arbitration. “For those of them who are already construction industry professionals we train them extensively in arbitration and for those who are not construction industry professionals, we train them on what we call subject matter competence in construction issues, so that their knowledge of arbitration and technical construction matters are blended to form a special variety of arbitration that is known as construction industry arbitration. We expect that they discharge their duties as arbitrators without fear or favour,” he said. Ex-officio member, Prof. Akin Akindoyeni admonished the new inductees to show integrity in the discharge of their duties. He warned that any member who is found in dishonesty would be “dis-fellowed”. Immediate past president of Architects Registration Council of Nigeria (ARCON) and 1st vice president of the Society, Arc Umaru Aliyu lamented that the use of quacks results in the incessant collapse of building across the country. He urged builders to make use of professionals at all times. Ephraim-Oluwanuga, who spoke on behalf of the new fellows, said it was a day they had been looking forward to. He said: Infrastructure is key to the development of any nation. If we get resolving disputes in infrastructure right, Nigeria will be alright.” He regretted that Nigerians spend too much time and years in court trying to resolve disputes.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .