Alhaji Shehu Shagari Former governor of Ogun State, Chief Segun Osoba and erstwhile Minister of Information, Prince Tony Momoh have mourned the death of the first elected Nigerian President, Alhaji Shehu Shagari, who passed on at age 93 after a brief illness yesterday. Similarly, the standard bearer of Lagos Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the 2019 governorship election, Mr. Jimi Agbaje also described Shagari’s death as a great loss to the country, especially at this critical period, when his experience would have been needed to discuss and find solutions to challenges facing Nigeria. Osoba told The Guardian, yesterday, that what distinguished Shagari from other former leaders was the way he comported himself in humility in and outside office until he died. “This is one virtue and legacy I hardly see in any of our past leaders. Shagari was a president in and outside the office until he passed on yesterday. He would be remembered for his humility,” Osoba said. In his remark, Momoh said: “Unlike other presidents after him, he never intervened in party affairs and during his administration, party supremacy was adhered to. He ran the country successfully as a democrat.” In a condolence message, Agbaje said Shagari laid a good example of leadership that must be followed and adhered to by others. Describing Shagari as an embodiment of quiet but dignified leadership, Agbaje said: “The former president provided Nigeria with selfless leadership at a turning point in its history, which occurred after years of military rule with a strong fortitude and quiet dignity. He rarely complained, he was not given to frivolity and he certainly was not prone to passing the buck because he assumed responsibility for any challenges he faced in government and tackled them heads on. “Outside office, he maintained stoicism despite daunting personal circumstances and never courted the limelight again. He was a symbol of quiet efficiency and humility. Nigeria has lost a great icon of leadership.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .