 Abia State Governor, Dr Okezie Ikpeazu  In a statement yesterday by its leader, Uchenna Madu, MASSOB said it had maintained a non-violent posture in the struggle for the actualisation of Biafra and would not indulge in acts both now and in future. The statement said: “The rumoured plan or intention to attack government of Abia State through the instrument of explosives and bombs by pro-Biafran agitators is handiwork of desperate politicians in Abia State whose intention is to grab power by violence means. “As MASSOB remains apolitical and non-partisan in Nigeria’s political activities. We also wish to inform the government of Abia State that we shall never invade or disrupt any political gatherings, campaigns and rallies of political elements that still believe in Nigerian state. MASSOB warns other pro-Biafran groups to resist and avoid any activities that will endanger the lives of their members because hundreds of lives of gallant Biafra agitators have been lost unnecessarily. “MASSOB also warns desperate politicians who are planning to use thugs and cultists in disguise as pro-Biafra agitators to cause mayhem in Igbo land, especially in Abia State, to desist from such destructive ambitions and plots as we shall resist any illegalities that will discredit our image.” The group also alleged that the operations of the military in Biafra land, code-named Operation Python Dance Phase 3, was “for intensive political destabilisation of Igbo land from this festive seasons to general elections.”saying: “The primary aim of the phase 3 of Operation Python Dance is to assist Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and other President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC federal security agencies to intimidate, frustrate, rig and cause the presidential election to favour the incumbent President. The presence of Nigeria’s military personnel scattered in all the rural and urban areas of Igbo land and their intimidating and subjective actions against the peace-loving people of Biafra will never deter or discomfort our spirits, zeal and love for Biafra actualisation. “MASSOB insists that no amount of cowardly acts of government security agencies against our people in Biafra land will ever achieve their aim.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .