 Buhari receives the former Governor of Ogun State, Aremo Olusegun Osoba, and the Ogun APC Gubernatorial Candidate, Mr Dapo Abiodun, at the State House.  Addressing State House correspondents after the meeting, which held behind closed doors, Osoba disclosed that the President endorsed the candidature of Abiodun and other contestants in the 2019 elections. Osoba further stated that Buhari raised Abiodun’s hand, just as he endorsed other party contestants for the forthcoming elections, assuring the APC candidates of his support towards success in the polls. “Mr. President has confirmed that his candidate in Ogun State is Prince Dapo Abiodun and that he has no other candidate. APC is his party in Ogun State and he has no other party in Nigeria other than the APC. “He assured us that he will personally come to Ogun State to formally present Abiodun as his candidate and assured that he is clarifying any ambiguity whatsoever of any name dropping; blackmail; misinformation that anybody maybe peddling that all elections in the country, not just Ogun, people must vote for APC and no other party. “That is the message that the President gave to us this morning. “I also seized the opportunity to present my autobiography, which I’m going to launch if the President gives me a date because in the book I reminded him of the letter he wrote to me on June 12, 1984 when he appointed me as managing director of Daily Times. “So, I presented the book to him. In the book I showed the judgment in 2003 when he won the election in Ogun State even when he was not the President. “We assured him that if he can defeat an incumbent President in 2003 in Ogun State, a judgment was given where they said the election in Ogun was fraudulent and was nullified by the tribunal, so if he can win in 2003 by defeating an incumbent President he would win in 2019, by the grace of God,” Osoba stated. Governor Ibikunle Amosun had on Monday visited the President to present a letter formally adopting him as the presidential candidate of the Allied Peoples Movement (APM). The governor was accompanied by the National Chairman of the APM, Yusuf Dantalle. Abiodun said he was elated with President Buhari’s endorsement, saying that all those in other political parties campaigning with Buhari’s name and pictures should refrain from doing so. Abiodun, who was selected by the APC against Amosun’s wish, declared that he and the APC were sure of victory in the 2019 polls.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .