 Traditional Ruler of Ojoto, Igwe Gerald Mbamalu (left), receiving a portrait of himself from members of the community during their end of year party in Lagos.  He also reiterated the need for the electorate to vote credible and trustworthy representatives into various elective positions. Speaking on Sunday at the end of the year party of Ojoto Development Town Union (ODTU), Lagos Branch, Grand reception of the monarch and award to her illustrious sons in Lagos, Mbamalu said the people must be united to ensure peaceful coexistence of the country after the 2019 polls. According to him, “We all must look beyond political parties and pick individuals and personalities that can efficiently represent us,” Igwe Mbamalu said. “Vote according to your conscience, vote people that can deliver the dividends of democracy, those ready to serve the masses and not those waiting to be served. Choose people that will bring development to the community and not those with selfish interest looking to benefitting from the community” While calling on Anambra indigenes to come out en masse to vote, the monarch urged them to be law abiding, respect constituted authorities and live in peace, irrespective of religious and political affiliations. He emphasized the need for Nigerians to pray and support the government at all levels “to enjoy more dividends of democracy.” The monarch, who identified youths as the engine of growth and development, urged them to specialize, stay focused and grow. “Being youth is not a profession. some people think that when you are a miscreant and exhibit the notorious actions that you are a youth. But that is wrong. Being youthful, he said,  “is to be productive at a young age and not a time to be misused or indulge in all forms of crimes and delinquencies.” “It is a time to be active in your businesses, in your profession and prepare for life after retirement. You are a youth because you are vibrant and can contribute immensely to the development of the community and the country. Do not sit down in the village idle to cause pains and mayhem to people”, he advised. All Progressive Congress (APC) Senatorial candidate for Anambra Central, Sylvester Okonkwo, who was the Chairman of the occasion, urged Anambra people to exercise their franchise by participating fully in the voting process. He said this would guarantee that the people get leaders of their choice with experience and interest of the people that would enhance speedy economic development. “That is my commitment as I go to the National Assembly, to ensure that the digital space of Nigeria is totally developed and enhanced so that the full potentials of our people and country are realized. “I am committed to turning around the fortunes of the country through legislation that will enhance speedy socio-economic growth and development of Nigeria.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .