Babajide Sanwo-Olu The All Progressive Congress Lagos State gubernatorial candidate, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Wednesday reacted to the opposition party flag bearer, Jimi Agbaje, statement that says Sanwo-Olu’s political establishment does not like Igbos. The candidates, Sanwo-Olu and Agbaje will be contesting for Lagos State governorship seat during the 2019 general election. Sanwo-Olu said the state election will be about who has the best qualification for Lagos state development, adding that the election will not be about lies or insult. “This election will be about who has the best credentials to lead Lagos at this time of our development. It won’t be about who can dish out the most insults or tell the most lies,” Sanwo-Olu said. He added that 2019 election will not be about which Lagos State governorship aspirant can start ethnic tensions between Igbos and Yoruba. “The election will also not be about who can instigate ethnic tensions between the Yoruba’s and the Igbos.” Sanwo-Olu stated that he expected his opponent, Agbaje, to hold the qualities of a good leader as the election progress. He said, “I (Sanwo-Olu) still expect my opponent to hold on to those higher values we should see of elders as we progress in this campaign. Lagos is a work in progress. I was clear when I said Mr. Agbaje is my egbon (senior). He is older than me. There is a level of decency that is expected of an elder.” Recently, Agbaje said, “Oh yes, Lagos does not dislike the Igbos, your political establishment does. The royal utterance of 2015 is still fresh on the mind of the entire electorate.” It is believed that Agbaje was referring to the All Progressive Party leadership in Lagos State. Sanwo-Olu requested that campaigns be focused on issues that will lead to the prosperity of the people of Lagos State. “Again, let us take the campaign away from the gutters. Let’s make it about issues that will make life more abundant for Lagosians…” It can be recalled that the People Democratic Party candidate, Agbaje, lost the 2015 governorship election to the APC candidate, Akinwumi Ambode To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .