 Backyard garden with water feature  So, having mountains of refuse dominating the city space is not to be tolerated, not only because it is an eyesore, but also because of the myriad environment pollution and health hazards it presents. Concern and heightened awareness for the environment has reached its tipping point and has flowed into mainstream gardening with crashing speed, we have come to a point in time when gardeners want their landscapes to benefit the environment, not pose a potential threat to it. So, having mountains of refuse dominating the city space is not to be tolerated, not only because it is an eyesore, but also because of the myriad environment pollution and health hazards it presents. People today are more ecologically aware than preceding generations. They feel a personal sense of responsibility to save our planet. Today, gardeners are around the world digging in for the greener good. Just by planting something, they are helping to restore the balance of nature and help heal the earth, one garden at a time. They feel a need to make a difference, to be part of the solution, not the problem and be more environmentally responsible Homeowners find ways to cultivate green backyards without sacrificing style, beauty or time. Eco-chi Gardens are in The sense of environment responsibility coupled with out passion for healthy living is causing a real shift in what homeowners are asking for at garden centres. Gardeners now know fertilizers, potting soils and the plants they use impact the environment in a positive way and they are proud to be stewards of their little piece of the earth. With more and more people playing, entertaining and even working in their backyards, they want products that are safe for the family and their pets, and that means safe for the environment too, Eco- Chic Gardens are in. Chemical needy gardens are out. Eco-Ethics is one of the top  gardening trend. Spurred by overwhelming concern for the health of their children, pets, Mother Earth homeowners are seeking ecofriendly garden products. They are saying ‘No’ to chemical-based pesticides and fungicides and are seeking plants that are bred to withstand attacks by diseases and insects. Unlike organic products before, this eco-chic products actually works, gardeners worry about harming wildlife landing on their landscapes and are also concerned about the wildlife repellants that they are using on their yard. For those that do not want to use chemicals or products that smell like rotten eggs, a slew of new eco-chic repellants are now available for “Bambi and all his friends.” Water in the Garden Adding a water feature to your garden does not mean backbreaking work or budget-busting water bills. The closest way to add a water element outdoors is with petite water pools and fountains. Unlike man-made water ponds, the new small-scale pools require a lot less water and maintenance. There are Fountains that re-circulate water, solar powered,  will also be widely popular. Try adding one of the classic and contemporary eco-friendly fountains that replicate the look of lead or Iron but are lighter than traditional materials. Concern over limited water resources receives attention. Saving water is not only in, but also mandatory. Look for more smart water saving and rain harvesting to help us be better stewards of the land and our landscapes. Easy Gardening is in. High Maintenance Gardens are out. Design trends may change rapidly, but lifestyle trends do not. The uber-busy consumer is busy than ever, and he or she demands products that simplify their life without breaking the bank. The good news is there is an overwhelming assortment of garden products. From regionally customized fertilizers to disease-resistant plants like the Bahamas Bay Hibiscus that require no pesticides, saving money, time and doing right by the planet has never been easier. Other smart new gardening plants include: Horticulture Black Flamingo, a low maintenance perennial that works well in the landscape or as a houseplant, and the new ‘novice-proof’ Thai Delight Caladium Collection which also requires minimal care or know-how to grow successfully. Gardening for the Birds and Bees As we seek to restore the balance of nature, creating natural shelter that birds can retreat to and planting flowers and plants to attract and feed wildlife is increasingly becoming more important. Potting evergreens, planting vines beneath a deck railing and even potting up flowers and placing them around a deck or patio will give these creatures a place to hide, and for some birds, bees, lady-bugs and even bats and other beneficial insects fruit and nectar to eat. Planting or potting red blossoms, such as dark red Verbena will attract Hummingbirds and Star plants. Grand bleu caryoptens will be covered with bees and butterflies. Another easy way to go green in the garden is to go easy on insecticides or stop using them altogether.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .