 (FILES) In this file photo taken on December 1, 2018, Oleksandr Gvozdyk (R) fights with Adonis Stevenson during their WBC light heavyweight championship fight at the Videotron Center in Quebec City, Quebec, Canada. – Former world light-heavyweight champion Stevenson remains unconscious with mechanical aid to breathe in intensive care after a knockout loss three weeks ago, promoter Yvon Michel says. In a story link posted on his Twitter account and comments to the Montreal Gazette, Michel said Stevenson has not improved since doctors sedated him and put him on a medical ventilator to breathe after his 11th-round knockout loss to Gvozdyk. (Photo by Mathieu BELANGER / GETTY IMAGES NORTH AMERICA / AFP)  Simone “Sisi” God, issued a statement via social media saying the fighter was awake. “Despite recent reports being leaked to media, I wanted to clarify that Adonis is awake,” God said. “He is healing from his injury in the private company of his family and his dedicated medical team.” Boxing promoter Yvon Michel said on Thursday that Stevenson was still in a medically induced coma and on life support. “He still needs mechanical assistance to breathe, and he has not regained consciousness,” Michel said. “When we visit him, we cannot stay with him for long, and the doctors do not venture an opinion on what lies ahead.” God’s statement gave no indication of when Stevenson emerged from a coma. A spokesman for University Hospital of Quebec, contacted by AFP, said he was unable to confirm Stevenson’s condition. Michel posted on Twitter Saturday saying “Great News” adding that he had spoken with God and “things have evolved enormously”. Stevenson, a 41-year-old Canadian fighter of Haitian descent, was helped to the dressing room after losing the World Boxing Council crown in his 10th title defence over five years. After unbeaten 31-year-old Gvozdyk finished him off with a crushing right hand that left Stevenson leaning awkwardly against the ropes, Stevenson was taken by ambulance to a nearby hospital. Doctors aid he suffered “severe traumatic brain injury” that required neurosurgery.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .