When Simi announced that she was going to have a Lagos concert in 2018, many went wild. Simi, the stellar star had caught the attention of Nigerians with her voice that calmed the nerves of the disturbed and spoke to the broken hearted. The 30-year-old singer is different things to different people. To some, she is the most beautiful singer to grace the screen. To another group, she is one of the singers that still writes meaningful lyrics and understands the emotional struggles and butterflies which she communicates through her music. Still, to some, Simi is the perfect singer and alleged lover of their favourite artiste, Adekunle Gold. To another set, she is Symply Simi, the great singer with a rather interesting fashion sense. All these groups made their way to the Simi Live on Sunday, the 9th of December where the singer was going to perform to their hearts intent. As far as these groups were concerned, her 2017 performance at her concert together with her back to back hit tracks were the deciding factor that the singer was going to be dominating the space for a long time. And so the drama began! SIMI Live was billed for 6 pm but boy did it start at some minutes before 10 pm on a Sunday. For emphasis sake, the following day is a Monday, grumpy ol’ Monday the mood changer. Soon people started tweeting and boy did they vent. And our beloved Simi made her appearance by 11 pm, an hour left into Monday, stating that “logistics” was the root cause of the problem but some had left the venue. This lateness was later pacified by her performance with Adekunle Gold, Falz, Zoro to mention a few. There were also highlights from some other artistes who thought they were there to render “Acappella”. Simi must have taken all of these complaints into cognisance because she released a video apologising for the turnout of the event. Watch below: pic.twitter.com/rhb36goeo9 — Simi (@SympLySimi) December 10, 2018  As for the grieving fans? It’s all been sorted We Love you Simi. Taking responsible of what you couldn't help. Really courageous. — Iwuese (@candybliss95) December 10, 2018  So sweet of her.. makes me respect her even more — Stephanie Chioma (@da_divah) December 10, 2018  So sweet of her.. makes me respect her even more — Stephanie Chioma (@da_divah) December 10, 2018  Now that we are on the same page, how about another concert as a proper apology?