   The fourth quarter 2018 edition of PoS Innovation summit, with the theme – Pricing and Shared Agent Network Viability – will explore and examine the dynamics of the Shared Agent Network Expansion Program and its capability to accelerate the achievement of financial inclusion goals of the PSV 20:2020. Organizers of the summit, Global Accelerex Limited, the leading Payment Terminal Service Provider and Payment Solution Service Provider, announced that the event will hold on December 12, 2018 at The Wheatbaker, Ikoyi, Lagos. Keynote speakers at the event, Mr. Sam Okojere, Director, Payments System Management, Central Bank of Nigeria, the new department carved out by CBN to have oversight function on the payment system industry in Nigeria, and Mr. Edwin Otieno, Head, Agent Banking, Kenya Commercial Bank, Kenya, will deliver insightful and engaging presentations. The Panel Discussion Segment will feature industry experts including Mr. Niyi Ajao, Ag Managing Director, NIBSS, Mrs. Bunmi Lawson, Director, EFInA and former MD Accion MFB, Mr. Emmanuel Agha, MD, Innovectives and Mr. Jay Alabraba, COO, Pagatech. “To achieve the lofty ideals and objectives of SANEF, there must be concerted effort towards promoting agent banking through the shared agent network approach. This requires the attention of relevant industry stakeholders who will convene, deliberate and educate participants at the Summit,” said Kayode Ariyo, ED, Business Development and COO, Global Accelerex. The SANEF project seeks to deepen financial inclusion through an integrated ecosystem with strong regulatory oversight, consumer protection and interoperable payment system with limited concentration risk. The initiative involves on-boarding 40 million low income and unserved Nigerians into the financial system, increasing financial access points from the current 50,000 to 500,000 by 2020 and deepening access to mobile and digital financial products and services such as savings accounts, micro loans, insurance and pensions.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .