Manchester United’s coach Jose Mourinho walks on the pitch before the start of the International Champions Cup match between Manchester United and AC Milan at the StubHub Center in Carson, California, on July 25, 2018. / AFP PHOTO / Robyn Beck Manchester United announced on Tuesday that they had parted ways with manager Jose Mourinho. The sack had a sheen of inevitability to it with some fans wondering why it had not come along earlier. On the back of the loss to Liverpool over the weekend, Mourinho got his fourth sack from a club. For the self-proclaimed special one, the trend looks worrying compared to his rival at Manchester City, Pep Guardiola. Here are three other times Mourinho got the boot. Chelsea (2007-2008) After winning two Premier League titles, two League Cups and an FA Cup, Mourinho was dismissed in his fourth season after series of disagreements with Roman Abrahamovic. The 55-year-old was against the appointment of Avram Grant as director of football. In the lead up to the eventual sack, Chelsea lost to Aston Villa before playing out a draw against Blackburn. The 1-1 draw against  Norwegian side Rosenborg at Stamford Bridge in the Champions League was the back-breaking straw. Real Madrid (2012-2013) Mourinho called the season the worst of his career after his loss to Atletico Madrid in the Copa del Rey final. Again, it was filled with fractious relationships with the players. Mourinho had a strained relationship with Iker Casillas and Sergio Ramos. There were reports that he had lost the dressing room with the player divided into camps. The former Inter Milan manager claimed he was hated by the press in Spain and always complained about a bias towards rivals Barcelona by the authorities. Mourinho was let go at the end of the season. Chelsea (2015-2016) Mourinho was sacked for a second time at Chelsea, just seven months after winning the Premier League in the previous season. With the poor stint at the helm, the Portuguese manager was let go by the top brass at Chelsea. The London club was 16th in the Premier League and one point above the relegation zone when Mourinho was dismissed. Mourinho alienated most of his players and accused his players of betrayal. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .