 Ikechi Odigbo  With the theme, Future Forward, this year’s edition was aimed at proffering lasting solutions to dominance of foreign agencies in the Nigerian advertising sector, by challenging Nigerian agencies to up their game and come out with creative materials, which would compete favourably with their foreign counterparts, thereby developing the industry. While speaking on the importance of the awards, President, AAAN, Ikechi Odigbo, said it was imperative and would serve as a motivating factor to all Nigerian agencies to improve quality of creative craft through application of global best practices. “For the past thirteen years, we have consistently hosted LAIF simply because we are of the opinion that we need to reward ourselves, especially those who have shown outstanding qualities throughout the year in review through creative adverts. We also use this festival to encourage us to counter the massive dominance of foreign agencies in our market through creativity, dedication and passion.” Also, chairman 2018 LAIF awards jury, Micheal Zylstra, said it was an arduous task to determine winners for each category, saying it is a welcome development to the industry because it has shown the level of improvement and creativity of Nigerian advertising agencies.He said, “We are impressed with Nigerian advertising agencies because they have shown us that they have taken some leaps in achieving creativity and excellence. It was a herculean task to choose the winners because all the entries were of global standards. And this is good for the industry.” At the presentation of awards, Insight Publicis emerged winner of Outdoor/Poster nomination in the Alcoholic Beverages category with its ‘Heineken’ advert, while Leo Burnett clinched gold in the Corporate Image category with ‘Man in the box MTN’ advert. In the press nomination for the ‘Food and Consumables’ category, DDB Lagos took first position with ‘Royco’ advert, Noah’s Ark ‘Indomie’ and ‘Three Crown’ adverts in second and third positions respectively. In the Best Use of Music category, ‘Culture’ emerged victorious with their Raise ‘A Trophy’ jingle, Insight Publicis ‘Pepsi Mama’ and ‘Pepsi-Naija all the way’ in second and third spots respectively. Others include Best Use of Art Direction in which X3 Ideas came first with its ‘Lacasera moon’ advert, beating off competition from Insight Publicis with ‘Art Box’ and 141 Worldwide with ‘9mobile workers day.’ There was also entertainment as popular comedian Bash thrilled the audience with rib-cracking jokes while legendary musician Daddy Showkey rendered his evergreen songs to the delight of guests.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .