 Past National President Nigerian-American Chamber of Commerce, Chief Olabintan Famutimi, (left), Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,  Mikano International Limited, Mr. Mofid Karameh and Managing Director, Universal Power System,   Chief Leye Kupoluyi at Mikano-MTU business dinner themed: ‘Innovation and introduction of new technology’…in Lagos  With the project, Mikano joined the league of organisations delving into the real estate industry.Beyond that, the firm has also expanded its operations to steel fabrication, lighting infrastructure, furniture and construction works in Nigeria. The new drive is anchored on technological innovations made possible through a partnership with renowned German power generator company, MTU Onsite Energy.The project is its first industrial complex in Nigeria with eight warehouses measuring 7,200 square metres and located in neighbouring Ogun state. Disclosing this at a business dinner to announce its partnership with MTU Onsite Energy in Lagos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mikano International Limited, Mr. Mofid Karameh, said the move is spurred by successes recorded in power solution and the need to deliver eco friendly generators to Nigeria homes and industries. He said the Mehcity project and other civil constructions at Ikoyi and Victoria Island were in line with the firm’s innovative solutions and expansion strategy. Karameh stressed that Mikano offers operational power solutions such as IPP Projects delivering sales, installation, and maintenance running on Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) with soundproof enclosures. “ We are known throughout Nigeria as the best generator manufacturer, offering durable and highly performing generators. “ To ensure that Nigeria and Africa as a whole get the best of the power back up needed for its growth and development, Mikano International Limited has taken credible steps by signing partnership agreement with the renown German power generator company, MTU Onsite Energy to deliver a more reliable Diesel & Gas Independent Power Plant (IPP) Generators in higher engine capacities. According to Karameh, the need for power is instrumental for the economy to grow, for the factories to power up, for schools to light up, for hospitals to work, and for many other things. Also the managing director of Mikano International, Mr. Ibrahim Ibrahim, noted the involvement of the firm in poverty development and other constructions are in line with global trends. This, he said, is in tandem with the firm’s new philosophy of beyond power generation.As a leading solution provider and a preferred partner in the Electrical, Mechanical, Steel Fabrication and general civil work nationwide, the company was incorporated to carry out the business of sales, servicing, maintenance, overhauling and rentals of diesel and gas power generating sets from renowned global manufacturers like MTU ONSITE ENERGY (Germany) & PERKINS (U.K) engine and Stamford (U.K) “, he added. On its 25th anniversary programmes, head of marketing and communication, Mrs. Mayssa Hermes, said the firm is determined to show appreciation to Nigeria community through its corporate social activities by supporting the cause of the under privileged.She said, the firm kicked-off the silver jubilee anniversary with series of activities which; include donations to school of the blind and orphanage homes as well as football activities with Mikano sales promo/ raffle draw as the lead activity for the celebration. “ Prospective customers are to win instant reward with an opportunity to win the mega price during the promo”, she said. On her part, the assistant advert manager, Mrs. Wura Orimolade said, Mikano has demonstrated firm belief in the nation, its growth and development by implementing series of activities and corporate social initiatives that support the students, Nigerian Police force, the Federal and state governments. Speaking further on the STEM project, the assistant Marketing Manager, Mrs. Carol Chukwura stressed that interested students are to send in their ideas in word documents, while those selected will be invited to share it with professionals, who will help to nurture them to fruition. She said   the initiative is aimed at promoting education and creating opportunities for young technical students to gain skills in their technical field of educations. The competition, she said, is developed to identify and reward creative university and colleges of science, technology, engineering and mathematics students in Nigeria and is strictly for university students who are within the age bracket, 17- 25.She added that students in the areas of science and technology to develop their creative minds and help optimize their potentials in the area of nation’s building and the fulfillment of their dreams.“The initiative is to help Nigeria in its economic growth and development and the competition has a total price value of N1.8 million”, she said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .