 Kolode Oshinowo  Titled Tribute to Kolade Oshinowo and showing from February 23 through March 22, 2018 at Yusuf Grillo Gallery, the exhibition features works of about 25 artists from School of Art, Design and Printing, Yaba College of Technology, Lagos. According to the artists, the exhibition is organised to achieve two major goals: honouring “our distinguished and erudite scholar in the person of Oshinowo and announcing the disposition of the school to resuscitate our yearly art exhibition which was started in 1989.” The rested exhibition, they said, is being revived now with science and technology in view, adding, “We are conscious of the fact that contemporary art in the present time is moving towards the direction of science, and it is an opportunity for the artists to collaborate with other schools in the college on the areas of design and fabrication to meet the needs of 21st century artistic endeavour.” The exhibition features a wide range of media such as drawings, paintings, sculptures, ceramics, printmaking, textile designs, mixed media and installation art. Participating artists include Rukeme Noserime, Mike Omoighe, Olu Amoda, Pius Egiolamhen, Toni Ogunde, Emodi Tonie, Dr Ndubuisi Chinyere, Aderinsoye Aladegbongbe, Titi Omoighe, Adeola Balogun, Dr Irokanulo Emmanuel, Odun Orimolade, Emah Idiong, Sodade Ayoola, Dr Kunle Adeyemi, Raqib Bashorun, Sorunke Taiwo, Omoligho Udenta, Akinwande Festus, Lemon Abigail, Dr Shoyinka Grace, Adeyemo Akeem, Akano Benjamin, Patience Anthony-Euba, Shade Thompson, Stella Awoh, Nwosu Bafilia Amaka and Nwade Jachi, among others are Nwaopara Jane, Tajudeen Adeyoola, Olusesan Oresile, and Adetayo Olubunmi. A statement from the curator and secretary, organizing committee, Mr Sorunke Taiwo articulated the artists’ mission thus, “The exhibition is to create a platform for the lecturers in the school to showcase innovative ideas in visual expression. This is a move in the direction of building bridges with the view of linking the various departments in the school to the public, as well as enriching the students’ knowledge in their field of specialization. We desire that the effort will foster a synergy between the schools in the college and some major industries. More so, it creates an avenue for the school to link up with art collectors, critics, art writers and art lovers, who are constantly waiting on the artists for innovative ideas. Obviously, our students are in factual position to benefit immensely from the outcome of the exhibition and other innovations associated with the collaborations.” Egiolamhen described Oshinowo as an administrator whose era at the college “contributed so much to the development of creativity.” On extending the scope of the exhibition, he said, “we hope to collaborate with science professionals, for example, school of engineering.” Balogun, a metal sculptor recalled that the yearly exhibition actually took off over a decade ago with the theme ‘Forms and Colours,’ but it changed over time.” Dean of the school, Dr. Kunle Adeyemi assured that “from now on, it will be a yearly thing,” explaining that works of artists “will be a blend of town and gown, with the hope to create local content for materials instead of relying on importation.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .