There are lots of customs around the world but some customs are stranger than others. Here are some unusual customs from around the world. Baby Jumping in Spain
Residents in a small Northern Community take part in baby jumping called El Colacho, to keep the devil at bay. Men dressed as the devil run between and jump over infants, who are laid on mattresses along the streets. Avoiding using red ink in South Korea
It is a taboo to write someone’s name in red in South Korea because ren inks are used to write the dead’s name. Read More: Two Nigerian soldiers killed in Boko Haram attack Initiation custom in Brazil 
In the Satare Mawe tribe, young boys showcase their courage by placing hands in a basket filled with angry bullet ants. Tomato craze in Spain 
La Tomatina is the biggest tomato fight that exists. It is a strange culture among the Valencians in Bunol where tomatoes are used as weapons. Snowball fights are so last year. Read More: Court remands pastor for alleged murder of pregnant girlfriend, two others in Rivers The Polterabend custom in Germany
Just before couples are wed, their families and close friends meet for an informal affair. Then, all guests are requested to break things such as dinner wares and flower vases, anything except glasses. As soon as the entire place is in disarray, the couples should clear up the broken things. This tradition shows the couple the significance of being united and of hard work, which is necessary to make their marriage work. At least they are in for a hell of a start. Things can only improve from here. Read More: South Sudan close to famine, facing ‘toughest year’ Witches’ Night in the Czech Republic
Prague has more than its fair share of rituals and traditions, one of which sees young lovers jump over the dying embers of bonfires. Single men are also encouraged, on this day, to leave tokens of freshly cut branches on the doorstep of the women of the affections. It was once believed that the evil powers on this evening, which falls in between the ancient feast days of St. Jacob and St. Phillip, were far stronger than normal and that for this evening only they ruled over the good. Flocks of witches riding broomsticks were said to soar the skies, and the Czechs believed that the bonfires would bring them down in flames. Nowadays the celebration is far more light-hearted, and the biggest bonfire in the country takes place in the centre of the Czech capital.