Africa is a beautiful continent with a lot of unique experiences you will most likely not find anywhere else in the world. The continent continues to attract a lot of tourists from far and wide who are seeking once-in-a-lifetime experiences. Is exploring Africa on your bucket list? Here are five experiences you should have in the motherland. There is no wildlife experience like the one in Africa. Therefore, most people look to the continent to cross their wildlife viewing fantasies off their bucket list. The best part is that there is something for everyone and every budget as the cost ranges from luxury to simple. A great country of choice for this experience is Kenya. Apart from its vibrant culture, the wildebeest migration is not one to miss. It happens between July and October, at the Maasai Mara reserve. Cheetah. Photo: Pixabay Morocco continues to attract travellers from all over thanks to its unique culture, food and people. The country has so much to offer. Take a sunset camel ride through the deserts of Merzouga. This activity is one of the best experiences any traveller can have. Camel riding in Morocco. Photo: Pixabay For wine lovers, exploring the Winelands of Cape Town, South Africa will be a dream. Imagine a scenic ride through the wine fields, trying out different flavours on an epic wine tour and teasing your taste buds. This activity is perfect on a bright summer day with good company and a lot of laughter. Wine. Photo: Pixabay Egypt remains one of the most historical African countries. There is so much to see and do in Egypt, but feeding your eyes with the views of the Pyramids at Giza will most likely be the highlight. The Great Pyramid of Giza is the only one of the seven wonders that are still standing today. Pyramids. Photo: Pixabay A holiday filled with ample beach time is always a good idea. Tanzania boasts of some of the most pristine beaches in Africa, Zanzibar being the popular place of choice. Whether you’re there to relax and cool off or you want to be adventurous and snorkel or swim with the turtles, there’s something there for everyone. Waterside in Tanzania. Photo: Pixabay Evidently, Africa holds a key to intriguing travel experiences, and this is only a small portion. If you are not sure where to start from in your travel Africa sojourn, let this list be your friendly guide. Happy globe-trotting!