 Mike Ogbalu,CEO,Interswitch Financial Inclusion Services  The project is an arm of the company’s “Switch-a-future” initiative that aims at re-igniting the importance of STEM education for 20 million teenagers and 10, 000 schools across Nigeria, as well as providing opportunities for more academic exploits. The Chief Marketing Officer, Interswitch, Cherry Eromosele, said SPAK, an acronym for Speed, Precision, Accuracy and Knowledge, is an all year round competition, which is vital in STEM education, as it creates opportunity for students to develop their potentials. She said the company is interested in investing and bringing innovations to STEM education due to the vital role science play in shaping the future, adding that it was imperative for Interswitch to assist in supporting, driving and building skills the youths would require for development. “Interswitch is increasingly playing a key role in corporate social responsibility, using corporate shared value to bring innovation. SPAK as we have termed it, is a distinctive concept under the Interswitch ‘Switch A Future’ initiative. “As a mix of education, technology and entertainment which align with Interswitch’s fundamental values of excellence and innovation, this initiative is designed to identify, promote and ignite the right support and reward for STEM students and stakeholders. “This project will also address the challenges currently been faced by students, teachers and parents. For our youth to succeed in today’s knowledge based economy; they need to acquire the right skill set, their minds need to be re-engineered and reconciled with STEM education in order to compete in or create a job market,” she said. She revealed that the top first student would be awarded a five-year scholarship, a Mac laptop and monthly stipend totaling, N7 million; the second position will have a three-year scholarship, a laptop and monthly stipend, totaling N4 million, while the third will receive a year scholarship of N1 million. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .