With the amount of negativity going around, it’s encouraging to see that we still have things to make us smile. Whether its the journey to Wakanda, the thrills of the award season or the prospects of having one of Nigerian’s very own in a Disney movie. These are some of the stories made our week. Black Panther. Photo credit: QuirkyByte Since its release, the Wakadan blockbuster has been breaking records and setting new standards for films worldwide. Black Panther made $242 million (N87 billion) over the weekend it was released. These numbers didn’t just exceed its projected $165 million (N89 billion) estimates, but it makes the film the second highest four-day opening in film history right behind Star Wars: The Force Awakens – $288 million (N103 billion).
It also has the best Rotten Tomatoes score (Certified Fresh at 97 percent) of any Marvel Cinematic Universe film or superhero film in history. BAFTA awards ahead of the British Academy of Film and Television Arts Awards on Sunday, Monday, Feb. 10, 2014. (Photo by Jonathan Short/Invision/AP) The 71st British Academy Film Awards–popularly known as BAFTA– held on the 18th of February with many favourites of the award season bagging numerous awards. Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri led the pack with five awards including best film and outstanding British film. The Shape of Water also won three awards.Get Out star Daniel Kaluuya won the rising star award, which is voted for by the public. Emmanuella. Photo credit: Kobini Popular Nigerian comedienne, Emmanuella Samuel, popularly known as Emmanuella, hinted on Instagram that she might be featuring in a Walt Disney movie. In a picture that showed her in a car with set cameras filming, she said expressed her gratitude to everyone who has supported her so far. Would she be the new Disney dream character for Nigerian kids? Only time will tell. Stormzy. Photo credit: British GQ The 38th the British Phonographic Industry’s annual pop music awards—popularly known as the BRIT awards—took place at the O2 Arena, London, on the 21st of February. The awards featured performances from star acts like Rita Ora, Stormzy, and Kendrick Lamar. Ed Sheeran and Stormzy went head-to-head in most of the coveted categories but Stormzy came out on top bagging the British male and British album awards. Davido. Photo credit: Smade And KyImages. Davido’s 30 Billion UK Tour started on February 14th and moved through sold out venues in Leicester, Birmingham, Dublin, Manchester, London, and Hertfordshire. At the London show, Davido treated concert attendees to performances from Wizkid, Mr. Eazi, Not3s, DJ E Cool, and Mayorkun. Guess he is set to make 2018 his year as well.