PHOTO:AFP When it comes to condoms, everyone I meet thinks they know everything there is to know on the matter. As the conversation progresses, it is obvious that the knowledge is incomplete and in fact, I discover that there are more than a few condom myths floating around.Here are some condom myths: Myth: Condoms haven’t evolved over the past few decades
Most people think condoms haven’t changed over the past decades and since the time our parents might have been using them. Well, today’s condoms have evolved and been designed to enhance our senses and increase both partners pleasure.There have been lots of innovations in condoms; the shape, the size, the use of lube, the thinness of latex, the ribbing, the dotting, not to talk about flavors and colors. There are condoms that prolong pleasure by delaying ejaculation. Even condoms that glow in the dark!! How appropriate… Myth: Condoms aren’t that effective
We have all heard the same statistics; condoms when used correctly are 99% effective. The secret is in the “used correctly”. What I say to new users is experiment on your own on fitting a condom before you have the pleasure of using it with your partner.Condoms these days are 100% electronically tested, of very high quality standards from state of the art manufacturing endorsed facilities. Condoms are the safest way to prevent unintended pregnancies, STDs and HIV. Myth: Sex with condoms isn’t as enjoyable as sex without condoms 
Maybe this was the case 40 years ago – thick condoms, big smell. These preconceived notions make us believe that condoms don’t feel good or condoms aren’t fun.
The reality is that new technology condoms feel great, they are shaped and have added features for greater pleasure. Condoms are thinner than ever before, and it feels like skin to skin experience. And condoms not only have lower latex odor today but are enhanced with flavors such as chocolate, strawberry. Condoms are fun!For me, most importantly, condoms give us the ability to be fully engaged in the act of sex and not worry or think about the “what ifs”. Myth: You can stop using condoms once you are exclusive 
It is common practice to drop usage of condoms after you and your partner have been dating for a few months. I don’t think so, and I will explain why. Couples tend to use the ‘withdrawal method’ or ‘pulling out’ but this is very unreliable at preventing pregnancy and contributes massively to the high number of unplanned pregnancies and high abortion rates in Nigeria. Of course, this method does not protect you from STDs and HIV. Going by popular culture, couples are not always completely honest about their sexual fidelity. Until we get to that point, (and I strongly doubt that we ever will), every couple should use condoms in every occasion. Myth: Condoms are expensive and hard to get
That may have been the case long time ago. These days, condoms are widely available and sold in supermarkets, pharmacies, medicine stores, chemists, table tops, in hotels and even at traffic, and outside beer parlors and night clubs – the mallams that sell chewing gum, candies, cigarettes, also sell condoms.There are good quality condoms for as low as #50 for a pack of 3 condoms. Other more premium brands go for #150 or more for a pack of 3 condoms, so there is no excuse. Even if you don’t have one in your pocket or in your purse, there is always a place selling condom within reach. Myth: Condoms should only be the guys responsibility 
There is this notion that because someone with a penis wears a condom, he’s also to be in charge. How more wrong can this be? Who will end up getting pregnant in case of ‘’accident” after all. The guy? It is good that we are seeing changes here, and women who want to take ownership of their body, pleasure and health. Women are informed and make the right choices and take charge of their sexual reproductive health with the use of condoms and other contraceptives. If you are not among the women I describe above, then visit the website www.honeyandbanana.com for unbiased, accurate, friendly information on contraceptives and reproductive health.Sakellaridis is the Country Director of DKT Nigeria, a social marketing organisation promoting prevention of HIV/AIDS and family planning.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .