 Raised flooring in the data centre whitespace of new MDXi facility in Lekki, Lagos. <br />  Mr Gbenga Adegbiji, general manager, MDXi Data Centre, said that 70 percent of banks in the country are now hosting their data with his company in line with directive by CBN that Banks should upgrade their data centres to Tier 111. He explained that MDXi Data Center became toast of Banks because of its standard and processes which is of international standard and has also met CBN standard in certification among others. “Data hosting has assumed a new dimension with organisation embracing off-site hosting of data whereby data hosting is handled by a hosting company unlike in the past where banks host their without even taking note of what goes on the building next to where the bank is located,” he said. He disclosed that the MDXI Data Centre followed stringent rules both in the construction and management of the Centre explaining that the Centre operates concurrent maintainability, which means that there is no downtime when maintenance is going on. Adegbiji while revealing that the data centre was built out of the demand of customers, who were receiving other services from the MainOne cable company, stressed that the investment made on the centre was not a one-off investment. According to him, the business of data centre survives basically on the provision of the required infrastructure stressing that despite the huge investment made by data centres, Nigeria is still far from building the needed infrastructure.He said Nigeria needs to move fast in tackling the infrastructure challenges since society has moved into the sphere of technology adding that government also needs to understand the dynamic role of technology in developing the economy. Adegbiji revealed that the firm had so far invested $35 million out of the planned $40 million, adding that MDXi is the only data centre that guarantees 100 percent power uptime availability. He said the MDXi, which is West Africa’s premier resilient, vendor-neutral data centre, is also the only data centre with direct connections to four submarine cables within 10km: ACE, WACS, Glo 1, MainOne. The general manager explained that with its data centre and submarine cable, MainOne operates a central hub, which supports West Africa’s connectivity, cloud and data needs. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .