 Itoki road  For residents of Abule-Iroko, Itoki and its neighbouring border communities sharing borders with Lagos in Ado-Odo/Ota Local Council, Ogun State, the only dividends of democracy currently enjoyed in the area is neglect and total abandonment.The zone has earned for itself a sobriquet of Government Rejected Area (GRA), as it has been neglected by Ogun State and disowned by Lagos State in the area of infrastructural development.
 
Aside the terrible state of the road from Bible College junction, beside the moribund Gateway Hotel, Sango-Ota linking all the communities, hooliganism, robbery and other social vices have become the order of the day in the communities.The Guardian learnt that this road, which ends at the new Railway terminus on Ijoko road, along the Ota-Ijoko-Alagbole Akute expressway linking Berger on Ibadan Expressway, is a distance of approximately five km, with the population of over 350,000 people, and constructed by the late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo.
   
He initiated the construction to serve both economic and security needs for the people of the South West and Nigerians in the future, taking the advantage of the railway means of transportation.But despite this, the Itoki road is the only accessible road serving the teeming population, despite having over 200 adjoining roads within the community, that have remained untarred.  It was learnt that the road, was the escape route through which the then Head of State Gen. Aguyi Ironsi, left for Ibadan using the railway means of transportation, during the military takeover in 1966.From the old tollgate, Sango to the overhead bridge, the road is the only get- away short distance road in the period of crisis. 
   
It was a test case last year when the customs officers stormed Sango market, which resulted in a stampede, which grounded vehicular movement for nine hours, when motorists could not find alternative route, the road would have been of use. The Guardian learnt that a letter was written to the state governor, Ibikunle Amosun last year, but no response or intervention has been received so far.
 
A resident, Mr. Daniel Igbinosa Odiase, who is sad on the fate of the area, told The Guardian that based on the importance of the road, if the state gives the road priority, it would improve its Internally Generated Revenue (IGR), for instance if it is constructed under a Private/Public Concession for only five. 
 
“Based on the ongoing Railway project of the Federal Government, which has it terminus at Itoki end, if the road is constructed it will serve as access road for movement of goods into Sango, Lagos and the neighbouring countries through Idiroko-Cotonou border.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .