Babafemi Ojudu A governorship hopeful in Ekiti State, Babafemi Ojudu, has released his manifesto titled: ‘My Agenda for Life More Meaningful for Ekiti People’, saying he envisions a prosperous state where life would be more meaningful for the people. This is coming ahead of his March 9, 2018 formal declaration as a contender for the All Progressives Congress (APC) ticket for the July 14, 2018 governorship election in Ekiti State. Ojudu, who is Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Political Matters, said his manifesto, which covers a wide range of socio-economic and development issues, would address ways of overcoming the manifestations of poor governance in Ekiti State over the years. He said the state was beset with battered economy, shattered dreams; infrastructural decay; non-existent social services; erosion of positive values; executive rascality, a situation, he said has led to a complete arrest of the development of Ekiti State and its people. According to him, the challenges were traceable to a myriad of causative and consequential factors bordering on lack of capacity for public governance; endemic poverty; neglect and the culture of entitlement, among others. Ojudu said change could only happen in the compact and homogeneous state if knowledge was fused with enterprise to bring about development and prosperity. He explained that his strategy thrust rests on four pillars namely: To foster economic growth; invest in the people; nurture enterprise and innovation; and ensure wellbeing (F-I-N-E). He plans to put Ekiti back on the path of greatness to make the lives of the people more abundant and restore the dignity of Ekiti people. The translation of these interrelated pillars into action, he noted, is expected to eliminate unemployment and unemployability; reduce poverty; improve the living standards of the people; and ensure personal motivation for a productive economy. Specifically, Ojudu noted that government would embark on initiatives that will trigger a revolution in the agricultural sector; focus on tourism and infrastructure development; optimise education and knowledge. He also pledged to restore teachers to their pride of place as nurturers of society; place emphasis on technical education and knowledge-based learning; and develop strategic and innovative models with a focus on energy and infrastructure. With the promise of an open, transparent, honest and unpretentious government, Ojudu and his team of committed, passionate, experienced, energetic and exposed Ekiti sons and daughters will dedicate themselves to service and loyalty to the people. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .