The Lagos State police command yesterday paraded 70 suspected cultists including three alleged to be responsible for the death of a Lagos Neighbourhood Safety Corps (LNSC) official, Bolaji Monsuru. Three of the suspects – Bello (aka 17), Adio (aka trouble), and Odofin, were said to have led others at large to murder the LNSC official last week in Surulere. According to Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal, the 57 suspects were rounded up during an initiation rite of the Black Axe group at a hideout in Elemoro, Ajah. He said the arrested cultists would be charged with armed robbery and illegal possession of firearms. The police boss noted that the command had commenced massive clampdown on cultists, urging parents and traditional rulers to prevail on their wards to renounce cultism. He said: “It is no more business as usual as we are serious in this issue of war against cultism. We have started pressing for stiffer punishment. Before now, it used to be lesser charges against cultist but now we are going to charge them with armed robbery and illegal possession of firearms. “We want to appeal to parents to advise their children to shun cultism as we are serious in charging any suspect for armed robbery and we will not hear any plea from any parent.” Continuing, Edgal said he was satisfied that the killers of the LNSC were caught within five days after he gave the assurance. He added: “The deceased’s enlistment into the LNSC sent jitters down the spine of most cult members because he knew most of them. Hence the suspects, Bello, Adio and Odofin along with other accomplices now at large attacked and killed the deceased at Umunede Bar, Mallam Isa Close, Aguda, where he had gone to watch soccer at the close of work. “The suspects have confessed that they participated in the killing of Bolaji. An axe and knife with blood stains were recovered from the suspects and have been sent to the forensic unit of the police for analysis.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .