Last week was one of the major highlights for Black history, all thanks to the Marvel blockbuster Black Panther. The movie was being premiered at the Filmhouse IMAX Cinema by the U.S Embassy and I was invited. While guests had fun at the intimate reception hosted by Consul General F. John Bray, I decided to check the Terrace Bar. The aim was to have something light before I stepped in to see the movie. The Terrace Bar is on the second floor of the building and located at The Rock Drive off Bisola Durosinmi Etti Drive Lekki Phase 1. The Terrace Bar I chose a spot that gave me a view of the car park. A waitress met me almost immediately I sat down and took my order. If you come way too early for a movie and need a place to unwind, go upstairs, pick a spot and enjoy the soft music playing in the background. I ordered a plate of meatballs and for my choice of drink I wanted a margarita but unfortunately, they couldn’t prepare it, for reasons best known to them. I settled with the Chapman which I wasn’t honestly impressed with. For the size and the taste, I don’t believe it was worth the amount. The Terrace Bar Chapman While I was disappointed in the lack of my choice drink and settling with what I had, I noticed that it took some time for my meal to arrive. Thankfully, I had met a friend at the bar to keep me company. When the meal came, I was impressed with how large the meatballs were. I was even more impressed when I tasted it and it was fresh, soft and spicy. Just the way I love my meals. The spices exploded in my mouth with every taste and the bell peppers at the top of the stick added to the experience. Even my friend who had a taste from my plate said this was the best meatballs he has had on the Island. Although I haven’t tried meatballs at a lost of restaurants, I can’t guarantee his statement but it was a nice appetiser to have. Asides from the drinks, I really loved the experience at the Terrace Bar at Filmhouse IMAX cinemas. I definitely recommend it if you happen to be by the area and need a place to chill. The Terrace Bar Meatballs Price Box Chapman: 1800 Meatballs: 1800