 Governor Muhammadu Umaru Jibrilla Bindow of Adamawa State  The affected council areas include Maiha, Mubi North and Mubi South. Alemu made the disclosure in a recent WHO report released yesterday to journalists in Maiduguri. He said: “In response to the cholera outbreak of May 12, 2018, the first round of the two-phase oral cholera vaccination (OCV) campaign has kicked-off in high-risk wards of Mubi North, Mubi South and Maiha Local Government Areas (LGAs) of Adamawa State.” According to Alemu, the OCV campaign is part of WHO’s health emergency response strategy. He went on:  “WHO is leading other partners to support the health authorities to control the ongoing cholera outbreaks in Adamawa State. “There are new cases still being reported through the WHO-led active house-to-house search in three affected councils. “This is also the first ever cholera vaccination exercise in the state, following the release of 750,000 doses of OCV by the International Coordinating Group (ICG). “The initial batch of 378,815 doses of the vaccine have already been delivered to Nigeria for the first round of the campaign while vaccines for the second round will be released based on successful implementation and report of the first round.” Currently, besides funding from GAVI Alliance, WHO is also providing technical support to the health authorities at the state, local government and community levels. “This is to ensure quality implementation of the vaccination exercises,” Alemu added. He said preparatory for the campaign, WHO in collaboration with the state Ministry of Health, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and partners, has developed micro plans for the anti-cholera campaign. The WHO official disclosed that 2,200 personnel, including 303 vaccination teams, 275 supervisors, recorders and community members, have been trained and engaged. The state Commissioner for Health, Dr. Fatima Abubakar, who also confirmed the commencement of the exercise, noted that the outbreak needed a swift action. The responses, according to her, include active house-to-house case search as well as management and Water Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) activities. Her words: “These responses are being implemented to ensure the outbreak is controlled timely. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .