  Compiled by Ronke Onadeko, To My Younger Self is a collection of inspiring stories and letters from 24 outstanding individuals in Nigeria, sharing lessons learnt in their career, family and business journeys. Talking about the book during the launch, she said, “To My Younger Self features 24 authentic journeys of people who have had very rich experiences. In their letters, they shared the things they wished they had known, things they wished someone had told them, things they had learnt themselves, mistakes they had made and how they overcame the challenges. I’m hoping that this book will help young people, entrepreneurs and people transiting in their careers to gain clarity by learning from the experience of others to save time. Some young people do not have older ones or mentors to put them through and in order to help them not make the mistakes beginners make, this book is imperative as it will serve as a guide and light for them.” Special guests present at the event include Aishah Ahmad, Gbenga Oyebode, Ibilola Amao, Foluke Abdul-Razaq, Adeola Azeez, Uzo Nwani, Chizor Malize, Foluso Gbadamosi, Chinwe Egwim, and other contributors who read portions of their letters to their younger selves to the audience. To My Younger Self contains letters from Aishah Ahmad, Deputy Governor of the Central Bank on Nigeria; Nike Ogunlesi, Founder of Ruff ‘n’ Tumble; Betty Irabor, CEO and Editor-in-Chief of Genevieve Magazine; Ndidi Nwuneli, Founder of LEAP Africa; John Obaro, CEO of Systemspecs; Kunle Elebute, Country Managing Partner of KPMG; Akin Akinfenwa, CEO Forte Oil and many others. “The reason why this book is important is because we want to get it into the hands of 10,000 young people before the end of the year and I want this book to mentor and guide them. I want people who read this book to understand that there is a need for a strategic, informed and intentional way to grow themselves and their businesses and to plan their lives and careers,” Onadeko added. Copies of To My Younger Self can be purchased from Laterna Bookstore. Follow @youngerselfbook on Instagram and Twitter and the hashtag #ToMyYoungerSelf for updates. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .