 Kayode Fayemi  The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Mr Gabriel Idunseri, the youths’ leade stated this in a statement he signed and made available to newsmen in Benin-City on Friday. He thanked the APC National Chairman, Mr Adams Oshiomhole, whom he said his emergence contributed to the success of the party in Ekiti. According to him, Ekiti victory is a pointer to the fact that the people had for long missed the Ekiti governor-elect. He said that he would like to advise Fayemi to use his victory to demonstrate that its administration would a responsible government by paying the workers’ salaries as and when due. “It is my humble wish to the governor-elect to rekindle his desires to arrest the army of youths in the state through massive employment and empowerment. “He should also priorotise the payment of the state workers’ salaries as soon as he hits the ground running. “This is because the outcome of this election is a prelude to the victory awaiting our great party come 2019 general election.” Idunresi said with the experience in Ekiti, the party was ready to win more states in the South-south zone. “This victory, coupled with the doggedness of Ekiti youths, should be seen as a wakeup call to all the APC youths in the South – south zone. “With this style of doggedness and determination, all other states in the South–south zone currently being controlled by the opposition would be won by the APC in the next general election,” he said. Idonseri also advised those that were dissatisfied by the outcome of the election to challenge it through legitimate means. NAN reports that Fayemi had on Saturday, July 14, defeated the candidate of the Peoples Party (PDP), Prof. Olusola Kolapo, in the governorship poll. The Chief Returning Officer for the election, Prof. Idowu Olayinka, declared the APC candidate, Fayemi, the winner of the election after securing 197,459 votes. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate and current Deputy Governor of Ekiti, Prof. Kolapo Olusola, scored 178,121 votes.The election in which 35 candidates representing the various political parties contested was held in 2,195 polling units spread across 177 wards in the 16 local government areas of Ekiti.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .