Stakeholders, who are also rooting for the re-election of Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for another term in office, gathered during the weekend at its maiden sports’ summit edition on how to develop sports in Ikorodu. The organisers of the summit, who called on the state government to assist in building a standard stadium for the community, noted that Ikorodu has over the years produced talented sports men and woman that include, Super Falcons player, Assisat Oshoola and former Nigeria sprint star, Falilat Ogunkoya. They stated that the total upgrading of sports facilities at the region would assist to spur youths in Ikorodu to participate in sports. Speaking at the event, the convener, Princess Folashade Olabanji-Oba, who is also the vice chairman of Ikorodu LGA, said that the development of sports facilities at Ikorodu would helped reduced youths restiveness and also add to rapid growth of more development in the region. “The sports summit, which is the first in Ikorodu is organised to seek for assistance from the state government and stakeholders of sports in the region to develop sports. Youths in Ikorodu are skillful and vibrant when it comes to sports. “This is why many talents from Ikorodu have represented Nigeria in different sports at the international engagements. The high level of passion for football at the viewing centre for the World Cup has shown that sports brings unity to Ikorodu. However, constructing a quality stadium in Ikorodu would go a long way to reposition sports in Ikorodu, “he said. At the end of meeting, stakeholders rolled out 10 key issues that must be addressed to move sports forward in Ikorodu, which implies the need for stadium development in Ikorodu division to encourage sport, upgrading existing sport facilities across the division, privilege individuals should invest in sports development, the need to institute sport hall of fame to honour past hero and heroines, to also encourage upcoming youths’ interested in sports. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .