Barbadian pop star Rihanna has been unveiled as the cover star for British Vogue’s September issue. Photographed by acclaimed fashion photographer Nick Knight and styled by Vogue’s editor-in-chief Edward Enninful, the singer-songwriter is featured on what is considered the most important issue of the year. Rihanna on British Vogue’s September issue. Photo: Nick Knight for British Vogue This is Enninful’s first September issue as editor-in-chief after he was appointed as the first male editor of British Vogue last April in replacement of Alexandra Shulman after her 25 years in the role. The December 2017 issue was his first in charge. The creative and colourful cover sees Rihanna in bright orange gloves, a fuchsia pink mesh collar with a bow detail and a floral headdress. Her eyebrows are drawn in on in a thin line and her lips are strikingly coated with a deep red shade of glossy lipstick. Rihanna wears a wool/silk tuxedo jacket by Alexander McQueen, lace gloves by Cornelia James and tights by Jonathan Aston. Photo: Nick Knight for British Vogue The edition, dubbed “the big fashion issue”, also includes interviews with Princesses Beatrice and Eugenie, and Sir Elton John. Enninful writes: “On top of providing an indispensable guide to the clothes and trends that will define autumn 2018, I wanted these pages to act as a marker for everything that is exciting and varied about the times we live in. Essentially, we are taking you on a journey – from our offices in central London, where I invited Bajan superstar Rihanna earlier this summer to talk diva-dom and diversity, to Royal Lodge in Windsor, where Princesses Beatrice and Eugenie welcomed Vogue into the heart of the Royal family.” Rihanna wears a floral dress by Noir Kei Ninomiya at Dover Street Market and satin and suede boots by Gianvito Rossi. Photo: Nick Knight for British Vogue He continues: “Ultimately, September is all about the hits of the season – giving you, the Vogue reader, the authority to make the most informed style choices for the months ahead. As for the cover? I always knew it had to be Rihanna. A fearless music-industry icon and businesswoman, when it comes to that potent mix of fashion and celebrity, nobody does it quite like her. No matter how haute the styling goes, or experimental the mood, you never lose her in the imagery. She is always Rihanna. There’s a lesson for us all in that. Whichever way you choose to dress the new season, take a leaf out of her book and be yourself.”