 Oprah Winfrey PHOTO:AFP  However, is there any cause for mass hysteria?
Last time I checked Oprah Winfrey wasn’t my aunty and Beyonce wasn’t paying my bills so why such teenage-like adulation and hero-worship?
Such frenzy seems even more ludicrous when we are so harsh on our indigenous celebrities when international stars can do no wrong. It was only weeks ago the camps were well and truly split – excuse the pun – over Tiwa’s ripped denim shorts. In the blue corner we had those who defended the star and said, “If it is good enough for Beyonce, it is good enough for our Queen of Afrobeats”. In the red corner were those who tutted, huffed and puffed. Because, “Which kind mother shows her bum to the world?”, “She is forgetting her African culture.” The same people who critise Tiwa so savagely are often the same ones going gaga over the sight of Beyonce’s left bum cheek at Coachella! Likewise for any Nigerian media mogul of Oprah’s generation, the inclination to find fault is ever-present. How many older celebrities do you see on the red carpet pictures from events on Nigerian gossip blogs, with anonymous comments under which read, “Aunty Such and Such, you’ve added weight o! You’re not looking fine again” or “Leave her jo! At her age she is still single. Is it her millions she go hug at night?” As for the private lives of the stars, the same dichotomy applies. When Beyonce was at the verge of a divorce a few years ago, many of us were shedding tears, owning her pain as theirs, wishing to drop kick Jay Z Solange style. Pray tell, did we feel the same pain over the break down of Toke Makinwa’s marriage. I doubt. In fact, the running commentary I remember mostly was, “Shebi this is what happens when you leave your husband unattended to show face on every red carpet?” Can we perhaps curb our endless adulation of international stars or even just temper it with commensurate compassion for our own? And please, next time you want to post a picture of Aunty Oprah and gush about her greatness, ask yourself: Has she made a difference to your life by appearing on a magazine cover or the red carpet?  Is she your aunty? Your fairy godmother? Is she paying your bills? If the answer to any or all of the above is no, remind yourself it is just as fine to enjoy her greatness in private. You can always set her cover as your mobile screen saver.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .