 Virgin Atlantic  The airline, in appreciation to its customers, is giving special discount offer of 17 per cent to travellers. Head of Virgin Atlantic in Nigeria, Samuel Lindfield, said the airline in the last 17 years has been connecting friends, uniting families, flying people to epic business meetings, conferences and life-changing deals. Also, flying travellers on honeymoons, dream holidays and their must-see destinations. He said: “Virgin Atlantic has been making dreams come true for 17 years. It’s with immense pride that we celebrate 17 years of flying to Nigeria, connecting Nigeria to the world through our London hub. We are incredibly thankful for the loyalty Nigeria has shown us over the last 17 years, and we look forward to sharing an exciting future together”. Over the last 17 years, Virgin Atlantic has flown an average of 26 million passengers, served about four million glasses of bubbly on over 12,000 flights, and flown 38,600,000 kms on the Nigeria route. As it is transitioning into the 17th year, the airline is becoming an even more mature business and therefore, taking the time to re-invest in the community it serves. Virgin Atlantic has supported the careers of local Lagos entrepreneurs by linking them up with the Founder and President, Sir Richard Branson for long-term business mentoring. One of those entrepreneurs became the face of the latest media campaign. CSR activities have also delivered over 200kg of medical supplies to local maternity wards. Lindfield said that the airline is particularly proud to convey not only some of the biggest corporations in the world to Nigeria, but also some of the fastest growing small and medium enterprise (SME) companies to and from Nigeria under the banner of the FlyingCo proposition. “It has changed the game in Economy by offering an upgraded Economy experience including bonus miles, priority check-in and boarding as well as extra legroom. At the same time, it has made flying more affordable for anyone just looking for a quick weekend break.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .