Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Sports, Mr. Adeboye Anthony Adeyinka (second left) enjoying the France vs Uruguay match with other Nigerian ex-internationals at the Teslim Balogun Stadium viewing centre, Surulere… on Friday. Former Internationals have commended the Lagos State Governor Ambode Akinwunmi for the viewing centres created across the state for the duration of the 2018 FIFA World Cup. The players praised the governor for the initiative, tagged #MyLagosMyFootball, which according to them has gone a long way in fostering enthusiasm in sports among Lagosians, especially football. Centres created by the state government were through the Lagos State Sports Commission, in partnership with the International Breweries Plc, makers of Trophy Lager Beer, Hero and Budweiser, for Lagosians to be part of the football fiesta. The retired footballers players, who met with the Executive Chairman and Director General, Lagos State Sports Commission, Dr. Kweku Adedayo Tandoh, and Mr. Babatunde Bank-Anthony respectively and members of the Commission’s Governing Board on Friday, said they were happy with establishment of the viewing centres across the state by the governor. Former star, Waheed Akanni, said they were privileged to be part of the #MyLagosMyFootball initiative spread across the eight viewing centres to support the governor and also to appreciate him for recognising their efforts and service to their fatherland. On his part, another ex-international, Friday Elaho, described the idea as a welcome development and thanked Ambode for giving Lagosians a good time, saying, “This is why you see all ex-internationals coming together to support the governor’s initiative. This is the first of its kind and very commendable. “Football is a sport that unites Nigerians regardless of their ethnicity or religion. It’s the same language every Nigerian speaks and these centres have contributed immensely to bringing people together to enjoy the game of football,” Elaho said. Also speaking, Mr. Taju Disu, an ex-international and now the Supervisor for Agriculture, Youth and Sports, Surulere Local Government, described the initiative as a fantastic one. “I give kudos to the Lagos State Sports Commission for deeming it fit to facilitate this laudable project. Governor Ambode has done well and has surpassed what people think he can do,” Disu said. Tandoh in his remarks said the governor was committed to honouring ex-internationals for their sacrifice for the state and nation, adding that they would never be forgotten for what they have done.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .