 Kingsley Moghalu  Prof. Moghalu, former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, also announced Ebere Samuel as the National Coordinator for the Kingsley Moghalu Support Organisation (KIMSO). The announcement is contained in a statement issued on Monday in Lagos by Mr Jide Akintunde, spokesperson for Moghalu and his ‘To Build A Nation (TBAN) movement’. Moghalu also announced the appointment of Zonal Coordinators of KIMSO to provide direction for the campaign activities across the six geo-political zones of the country. The zonal leaders are Suleiman Yusuf (North East); Muhammad Kabir (North West); Jennifer Igoh (North Central); Chief Uduma Nnate (South East); Adewole Akinpelu (South West) and Josef Anndotan (South South). According to him, Abubakar will coordinate the operations of the campaign, including logistics, personnel, fundraising and political operations across the 36 States of Nigeria. Read More: Ex-CBN chief, Moghalu to run for presidency He said that Abubakar’s duty would involve overseeing the work of the nationwide KIMSO and the Kingsley Moghalu Volunteer Force. “I am pleased to welcome Abubakar, Ebere and the zonal coordinators of KIMSO to our ‘To Build a Nation’ (TBAN) movement and our campaign for the Office of the President on the platform of the YPP. “We must release Nigerians from the bondage of poverty and unemployment in which our failed and recycled politicians have kept us, and take our country into a new future of prosperity” “We need solid structures in place to win the elections and bring this vision into reality. “The appointment of Abubakar, Ebere and zonal leaders of KIMSO brings on board energetic men and women who are passionate about the vision and know how to get things done”, he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Moghalu, is a political economist and founder of the Institute for Governance and Economic Transformation.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .