Onadeko at the launch As the country’s economy worsens by the day, experts are beginning to see alternative ways to engaging and directing the immense energies and talents of young people to positive use. The young ones, on their part, are at a loss on how to unleash their talent. How then can these two meet for the needed synergy to drive the economy in the right path? How available and accessible are experienced mentors to young people so they together can tap from their wealth of experience? Where can mentors find mentees for the needed engagement? This is the challenge Aderonke Onadeko has surmounted with her new book, To My Younger Self. Her audience is mainly young adults for whom the book is directed. There are older folks too, particularly, those whose experience as industry leaders have been brought to bear in the book. The list is impressive. From Deputy Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Aishah Ahmad; to Managing Director, Forte Oil, Akin Akinfemiwa; Head, Corporate Communications, Access Bank, Amaechi Okobi; Chairman, First Bank of Nigeria, Ibukun Awosika and many others, Onadeko puts together “a collection of inspiring stories of career, family and business journeys”before her readers. With a book like this bursting at the seams with a myriad of inspiring messages of encouragement on how to put the right foot forward from tested hands, readers of To My Younger Self can forge ahead with greater confidence. As the author reveals to her audience in a video, solutions to Nigeria’s protracted problems need not come from outside, particularly from foreign authors, as homegrown industry leaders in all sectors of the economy have what it takes to get the country out of the woods. For Ahmad, “when you have an idea, just put your foot forward and get it done. Not many mentors do we have access to; a book like this bridges the gap of mentorship. The author has done well by outing this book together.” Folusho Gbadamosi, a young person who has read the book, confessed its greatness, saying, “It’s wonderful, practical and relatable. It confirms what we have always known, that successful people are very similar in how they got to the top. So, in it, you find the power of dedication, values and integrity.” The author, who calls herself a serial entrepreneur, having operated in over seven different sectors of the economy, said she is in the business of reinventing herself, as her career path indicates. She also told her audience, candidly, “I’ve had more failures than anyone else can think of.” Onadeko said she choose success stories from different backgrounds to write the book and speak to readers to make it believable as well as not become a monologue. So, she made her contributors compress their essence in two pages. “Nigeria is a dynamic country and opportunities are so huge,” she stated. “There are so many ways of getting money – the good, and the bad ways. It is good if you find God first before you find money otherwise, you derail. God is the one constant thing in my life.” To young people, she said, “people need multiple mentors, many layers of mentors covering different areas. I’m a young person in my mind. In anything, learn to sharpen your mind and strategy. Maybe, we don’t push hard and follow through processes here. There’re a lot of distractions. Young people who plan, process and follow through will go far.” She said she has some 20 books on mentoring waiting to be written and will be available online and in audio formats. To My Young Self also has a coffee-table size format. Proprietress and head of Bridge House College, Foluke Abdul-Rasaq, who read excerpts from her contribution to the book, attested to Onadeko’s passion about motivating and mentoring other people, which she said, “are very important in today’s world. Thinking differently is the difference between success people and those who fail. Other contributors, who read excerpts from the book include, CEO/MD of ACCION Microfinance Bank Ltd, Bunmi Lawson, Principal Consultant, Lonadek Oil and Gas Consultants, Dr. Ibilola Amao.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .