First Bank In line with its commitment to support reputable educational institutions with strong business and finance setting, FBNQuest Merchant Bank, the merchant banking and asset management subsidiary of FBN Holdings Plc, has delivered a ‘Bloomberg Room’ at the Lagos Business School – Pan Atlantic University (LBS).
The Bloomberg room is a financial resource centre where students can get quick access to research tools, financial market data, analysis of banks, and other economic data to facilitate effective learning at tertiary level. The initiative commenced in 2014, with two terminals in the LBS library, and subsequently expanded to 12 terminals due to the impact and strong ability to develop capacity of the users, especially in the areas of knowledge in finance and research. FBNQuest action aligns with the group’s Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability (CR&S) focus areas of knowledge & skills development and sustainable finance/investment. Speaking at a press conference, the Chief Executive Officer, FBNQuest Merchant Bank, Kayode Akinkugbe, said: “We are conscious of the role technology plays in providing people with access to information. We believe it is important to equip students with the right financial tools and research, and we want to contribute meaningfully to that need.” “We started the initiative five years ago, and this expansion is something we were keen to deliver because we know that the impact at this stage of learning can be profound. Through the resource centre we also provide access to our thought-leading FBNQuest Capital Research, which we believe will serve as an additional resource for the students.” he added.     The Dean, Lagos Business School, Dr. Enase Okonedo, speaking on the benefits of the resource centre to students, explained that it has helped to provide real time  financial data to the students. “It fits perfectly with the school’s effort to provide global standard teaching and knowledge sourcing facilities. The students’ experience is significantly enriched, and the benefit of added qualifications is a bonus. We are glad to have this partnership with the organisation, and the Bloomberg terminals have been impactful for the beneficiaries and the school in general.” According to the economist, LBS has been rated as one of the top 50 Business Schools worldwide, surging ahead of world-class institutions such as the University of Florida, University of Wisconsin, and the University of Minnesota. This global ranking is a testament to the rising quality of business education delivered by the school. The School also achieved accreditation from the AACSB, the world’s most prestigious business school accreditor, and its MBA is accredited by AMBA. The Bloomberg Terminal is one of the financial sector’s most widely used resources for real-time financial data. It also offers access to certified online courses on markets and other financial concepts available via the terminal. Recently the Executive council of the LBS Alumni Association (LBSAA) awarded the prestigious 2018 President’s Award to FBNQuest. This was in recognition of its contributions to the school via the Bloomberg Room and other capacity building engagements, which have been of immense benefit to both current students and alumni.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .