 National Chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Chief  Victor Oye  The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Oluwatoki, the sole aspirant for the party’s governorship ticket, was adopted during the APGA primaries in Osogbo, witnessed by officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). In his acceptance speech, Oluwatoki thanked the party members for selecting him, stressing that the decision was an indication that the party has no time for money-bags politics. According to him, he is on a mission to rescue the state from subjugation, economic infringement, delusion and poverty. He said that the party has already designed projects that would transform the state into an industrial one, in addition to programmes on poverty alleviation and youth employment. The APGA candidate also said the party has plans to subsidise education at some level, offer free health care, and improve the state economy, infrastructure and agriculture, if elected. Mr Mikeangel Folorunso, the Oyo Chairman of APGA, who represented the party’s national chairman, described Oluwatoki as a vibrant individual with the needed charisma to lead the state. Folorunso reminded people of the state that politics of money sharing would not bring about development or take them out of their economic difficulties, adding it is only by voting sincere and upright candidate as Oluwatoki that can gurantee them a better future. He urged the electorate to vote for APGA during the Sept. 22 governorship election, assuring that the party would bring about sustained democracy dividends.governor. Mr Olatunji Popoola, Osun APGA Chairman, said he was happy that the primary was a success and that the party has filed a credible candidate. Popoola said APGA is the only party that understand the pains of the people of Osun and has a blueprint and working plan to bring prosperity and wealth back to the state. NAN reports that the APGA candidate had worked with Lagos News and the defunct National Concord Newspapers.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .