(FILES) In this file photo taken on April 07, 2018 Manchester United’s former manager Alex Ferguson is seen in the crowd during the English Premier League football match between Manchester City and Manchester United at the Etihad Stadium in Manchester, north west England.<br />Alex Ferguson has undergone emergency surgery for a brain haemorrhage, his former club Manchester United have announced May 5, 2018. / AFP PHOTO / Ben STANSALL Manchester United posted a video of the Sir Alex Ferguson speaking publicly for the first time since his brain surgery in May. Ferguson, 72, said in the video that he intends to watch Manchester United at the Old Trafford in the coming season. He thanked the medical staff at the hospitals and his well-wishers from around the world.  Ferguson said: “Hello. Just a quick message first of all to thank the medical staff at Macclesfield, Salford Royal and Alexandra hospitals. Believe me, without those people who gave me such great care I would not be sitting here today. So, thank you from me and my family. Thank you very much. “It has made me feel so humble, as have all the messages I have had from all over the world, wishing me the best, and the good wishes do resonate very, very strongly with me. So thank you for that support you have given me. “And lastly, I will be back later in the season to watch the team. In the meantime, all the best to José [Mourinho] and the players. Thank you very much.” Ferguson had emergency surgery for a bleed on the brain on May 5th. He was in the intensive care ward for three days at Salford Royal Hospital. He was released from hospital four weeks later, in early June. He was last seen publicly at the Old Trafford when he presented former Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger with a commemorative trophy on 29 April. Ferguson retired from Manchester United in 2013 after 26 years in charge where he won 13 Premier League titles, two Champions League crowns, five FA Cups and four League Cups. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .