 Duncan Mighty  The song since it release has seen Duncan Mighty’s career witness a renaissance of sort.  Following the success of the song Duncan Mighty has become the hottest sought after act on the scene with many drawn to his sound.
  
The success has seen him record a number of collaborations with artists including Reekado Banks on BioBio, Masterkraft on Low Waist, Ceeza Milli’s Sabi, Uju by B-Red, DJ Xclusive’s Gimme and Bracket’s Chinelo among others.
  
The Ako Na Uche singer has also concluded works on yet to be release song with Mavin first lady, Tiwa Savage and while he has also been pictured with Burna Boy in the studios.
   
With the latest development, it appears the career of the veteran artiste who released his debut album Koliwater, a 22-track project in 2008, to a commercial success, has been revived in an industry where originality is being traded on the altar of the next hit song. Everyone wants the music producer from Obio-Akpor in Rivers State to replicate the magic that worked on Fake Love.
   
Though his musical style demonstrates a high-level of genre versatility, it is also heavily influenced by the sounds and culture of his people as most of his songs are sung in his native Ikwerre.
  
Following the success of his debut album, Duncan Mighty in 2010, followed up with a second studio album titled, Ahamefuna (Legacy), which also enjoyed wide acceptance and great success with songs like Port Harcourt Son and Obianuju going on to dominate the airwaves, winning awards and nationwide recognition at the time.  The album included contributions from Phyno, Young Stunna, Tick Lips, J Flex and more.
  
Speaking about his name, the singer said, “Wene is my local name, the native name they know me by at home, Wene means brotherhood. If you are a Port-Harcourt man, you will easily grasp the meaning. It means my brother from another mother. I always use that slogan in every of my songs because ‘wene mighty’ means togetherness.”
  
It will be recall that Duncan Wene Mighty from youth began his music career as an instrumentalist; he played drums in church and was the choir director. His interest in music grew with time and eventually led him to school, where he studied audio engineering. During his NYSC, he served as a sound instructor for Benson & Hedges. He also worked at Dolphin Studios while on IT at Muson Centre in Lagos.
  
The Obianuju singer had recently ran into trouble over false claim when he shared a photo of himself with some men in military outfit (camouflage) and captioned it #Coursemates…way back in Nigerian Military School, Zaria, #99set, proudly Bravo Company. Few hours later, some former students of the school called him out saying he is not an alumnus of the school, precisely 1993-1999 set.