Boxing – Anthony Joshua vs Joseph Parker – World Heavyweight Title Unification Fight – Principality Stadium, Cardiff, Britain – March 31, 2018 Anthony Joshua celebrates with the belts after winning the fight Action Images via Reuters/Andrew Couldridge Anthony Joshua has announced he will return to Wembley Stadium for his next two fights. The WBA, IBF and WBO champion has signed a deal to have his next two fights at the Wembley Stadium on 22 September and 13 April. Joshua’s last fight at the Wembley was in April 2017 where he beat Wladimir Klitschk in front of a record breaking 90,000 people in attendance. The 28 year old has since fought his following two fights at Cardiff’s Principality Stadium. He fought Carlos Takam in October 2017 before his unification bout against Joseph Parker in March. Both fights drew a combined crowd of 150,000 but Joshua will hope to repeat his 90,000 seats sell out. Joshua’s promoter, Eddie Hearn confirmed that the September 22 bout will be at a 90,000 capacity but he was expecting the April 13 capacity to be extended to over 100,000. It is still unclear whether Joshua will face Deontay Wilder or WBA mandatory challenger Alexander Povetkin next. “Being north London born and raised, it is in my blood,” Joshua said. “The opportunity to fight in such an iconic stadium is normally a once-in-a-career opportunity, so to be given the chance to fight there again is amazing. Wembley just added a fourth lion to the den.” The Mayor of London, Sadiq Khan was excited about the bout happening at Wembley, stating it confirms that the status of London as the best place for sports. “I am absolutely delighted that Wembley is set to host these next two chapters of AJ’s remarkable career. We have once again worked closely with Transport for London to make sure this can happen and to allow for tens of thousands of boxing fans to travel to Wembley Stadium for the fights. “I have pledged to bring the biggest bouts in world boxing to London and these epic showdowns will cement London’s reputation as the best city in the world for top-class sport.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .