REUTERS/Paul Carsten Umahi insists S’East will negotiate presidency
A presidential aspirant and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar yesterday said corruption thrived more in the present government than any other since 1999. He said the coming together of 40 political parties was to rescue the country and return it to the path of progress for the good of her people. Atiku, who stated this in Abakaliki, Ebonyi State capital, during his visit, said lack of inclusive government had compounded the problems of the country. “So, let nobody come and deceive you on corruption. They are more corrupt than any government that I know since 1999 and we shall be revealing their level of corruption. Fighting corruption alone is not the only responsibility of government but other welfares. “I am here to introduce myself to the people of Ebonyi State to seek your support and that of our party, the PDP, so that we can throw out Muhammadu Buhari from Aso Rock. “Forty political parties came together to present one candidate for presidential election, one candidate for governor, one candidate for senator, one candidate for House of Representatives, one candidate for House of Assembly, one candidate for party chairman. “We need this alliance because what I have seen in the last three years is what I have not seen in the last 35 years in this country and we are determined to make sure that in the next election, whether state or national or federal, we will kick out APC in every state in this country,” he said.. In a similar vein, Governor Umahi said South-East would negotiate 2019 presidency and that the zone would vote for a presidential candidate that will develop the zone. He said: “The people of Ebonyi State, the people of South-East will sit down with anybody that is asking our votes to rule this country to negotiate. South-East will not follow wrong path again. Anybody that wants the votes of South-East will sit on the table with the leaders, agree, write and sign a seal. He noted that Atiku has all it takes to be president of the country. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .