Ekiti State Governor, Ayodele Fayose Governor Ayo Fayose of Ekiti State has condemned the alleged inhuman treatment meted out to a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) supporter, Mr. Aborisade Sunday, who was detained by the Department of State Services (DSS). Describing the DSS action of allegedly chaining and beating the PDP supporter to stupor as wicked, the governor said because he is there to protect the oppressed, everyone detained by the DSS will get N50, 000 a night for the detention as compensation from his government. Fielding questions from reporters yesterday, when the just released Aborisade visited him in Government House, Fayose wondered how an organisation saddled with the protection of people will continue to oppress them. “This young man has been arrested by the DSS in the last five days.  I don’t know how an organisation that is supposed to protect people will continue to oppress them because they are supporting a political party. They equally warned him not to go out to tell us what he saw.” Narrating his ordeal in the hands of the DSS, Aborishade said he was picked up  on Tuesday at the Are Babalola event centre in Adebayo area of Ado Ekiti by DSS operatives, saying: “They detained me for five days, put chain in my hand and legs. I cannot hear through my left ear now, due to the beating I received from them. “They said governor Fayose has thugs and I should tell them where they are hidden and where they hide guns, but all these I don’t know anything about. They said one of their officials was beaten at the Afe Babalola event centre last Tuesday, but I don’t know anything about it and I didn’t beat anybody there. I had only gone there to attend the Town hall meeting with stakeholders. “ Similarly, the governor has declared that plans by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to use the “Edo State option” in Ekiti next Saturday will fail, stressing that he won the June 21, 2014 governorship poll fair and square with the credibility attested to by local and international observers. The governor, who spoke in Ado-Ekiti through his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Idowu Adelusi, was reacting to a statement credited to the APC National chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, that the governor and the PDP were being haunted and jittery about the coming election. But Fayose said: “Oshiomole’s secret plan to use his fraudulent Edo template in Ekiti will never work and it will attract injurious consequences. This is because Ekiti people are resolutely determined to resist rigging right on the spot. “Contrary to Adams’ diatribe, rumour peddling and rabble rousing unbecoming of an ex- governor and national chairman of the ruling party,  Fayose and PDP are only interested in credible election. The governor said statements by top APC leaders, including its former chairman, John Odigie-Oyegun, that they must capture Ekiti by all means are very instructive in this regard. He added: “Nigerians witnessed the blatant rigging of Ondo and Edo governorship elections by the APC.  In Ondo, it was shameless vote buying. In Edo, they stopped vote counting when it was clear PDP was winning and changed the results overnight. Seeing these, who will ask us to stay stupid?”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .