 Home container garden with variety of plants and needs  Give your dying plant a new home  
Repotting your plant into a new home full of fresh soil or potting mix can bring it back to life. You’ll want to find a new container that has ample room for the roots to grow. Pick a pot that is considerably wider than the old one.  A quick trim of the foliage may seen like a step backwards, for the plant, but it can be helpful if there is a lot damage to the roots. Rather this will give the plants a fighting chance because the root system will not have to support a large amount of foliage. Getting rough when repotting 
Never pull a plant out of the container by the foliage or stems. Many plants, especially non-woody herbaceous plants, are very vulnerable at their stem levels when you pull and tug on the stems of your plants; you’re creating injuries that provide a portal for fungi, insects and other pests to enter.
Rather, tap on the bottom of the plant. If slightly root bound, squeeze the pot to loosen the root ball. If its really root- bounded, get out your box cutter, and carefully slice the container away from the plant. Wrong location-Evaluate your plant’s environment
Your potted houseplant may not be thriving for reasons other than the occasional forgetful spell of not watering. The environment may not be r                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ight for the houseplant. You can tell if the current spot is too sunny because the leaves will have bleached or have dark patches, touching will reveal the foliage has become brittle. Most houseplants are shade loving, evolved from forest floors and woodlands, so that excessive sun will cause scorching and brown foliage. Select a shadier spot and trim the dead and badly damaged leaves. Water the soil well and you may want to increase the surrounding humidity by rigging up a tray with water and gravel for the pot to sit on. If your plant is not getting enough sunlight you’ll find that the leaves are pale and will not bloom, weaken and become susceptible to pests and diseases. You will want to move the plant to a brighter area and see if doing so has a positive effect on future growth. Water (too much or too little)  
Plants are particular about their moisture needs as they are about sun exposure and nutrient needs. Go a step further and protect your investments, by learning about your plant irrigation needs, before you find them a permanent home, “ moisture-loving” may mean an inch of water per week, or it could describe a bog plant. Other plants may fail because they have been loved to death as some plants don’t like wet feet and you are over watering, especially during its dormant phase. If the soil becomes over saturated, the roots may start rotting, or the pot may start growing mold or mildew. Learn about your particular plant to give it the best care. Nutrients (Fertilizer) 
Is your plant dying from lack of nutrients? When you add fresh soil to a larger container, make sure you are using a high-quality mix that will provide the essential nutrients the plant needs.Added fertilizer may also be a way to boost the performance of a struggling plant. Be sure to follow the directions on the bag- don’t overdo it as too much fertilizer can kill (burn) your plant just as easily as forgetting to water it can.Depending on your plant, you might choose a slow-process fertilizer variety instead. This may take some time so be patient. Pests- keep pests away from house plants  
Your houseplants are the perfect place for insect invaders to hang out. Pests like aphids, fruit flies, spider mites and fungus gnats love the environment your plants provide. This is bad for both your home and your plants. Stop these invading free loaders by wiping down the leaves on your plants with a damp cloth or mild soap solution from time to time. This removes the pests along with any dust. Dusting your plant removes the organic compound pests love to snack on. Don’t get discouraged if it seems like your efforts are going to waste. It may take a while to see some improvement in your neglected plant. After completing these steps, give it some time to let your efforts bear some fruit. Eventually you’ll be amazed when your plants are restored to vigorous health because of your well-though-out action. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .