 Senator Dino Melaye<br />PHOTO: INSTAGRAM/DINO MELAYE  Melaye has also provided evidence of police statement to prove that his kidnap was duly reported to the Nigerian Police. The senator was allegedly kidnapped by gunmen on Thursday morning while on his way to Lokoja, the Kogi state capital, but the Police said they were not aware of the development. Melaye, who pasted a snapshot of the police statement, which he posted on his official Twitter handle, said “One is appalled that police will deny the reportage of my attack by my brother yesterday morning. This is the statement of my brother. “My name is Melaye Moses of No 4 Oando Close, Wuse Zone, Abuja. I am 37 years old. My brother, Sen. Dino Melaye and I were travelling to attend the ongoing court case in Lokoja. “Just few metres from Gwagwalada, we were attacked by some armed men who blocked the road by the edge of the road and started shooting at our vehicles. As a result of this, our cars started turning back I followed the same. “This happened around 8:00-8:10am but I started slowing down when I noticed movement on the other side of the road. Then I could not see my brother’s vehicle behind. I tried all his numbers and the driver’s own, but to no avail. “I started calling my family members and drove straight to the Police station to report the matter,” the police statement as signed by Moses Melaye on Thursday read. The Police had in statement by Police spokesperson, Jimoh Moshood, late on Thursday, said the Force Headquarters only learnt of Melaye’s alleged kidnap in the media, but has no unique details about the development. “The Nigeria Police Force have not received any complaint or report in any of its Police Stations or Divisions throughout the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) or any other state of the Federation of the kidnap of Senator Dino Melaye from any of his family members, friends, associates or staff to indicate that the senator had been kidnapped. “The attention of the police was drawn to the report of the purported kidnap of Senator Dino Melaye in some sections of the media,” Mr Moshood, an acting deputy police commissioner,” said. Meanwhile, Melaye had yesterday morning, barely 24 hours after the alleged kidnap, regained his freedom and returned from what he referred to as the wilderness saying: “I thank God once again for escaping another dangerous attack. I also thank Nigerians for their prayers and show of love. Spent 11 hours in the wilderness traumatized, but God preserved me. God is the best and in whom only I trust,” Melaye tweeted. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .