Sometimes you don’t need to be a relationship expert to notice the obvious signs of a disrespectful partner but we often allow our emotions to cloud our judgments. There’s a popular misconception that respect between romantic partners means to control, meeting demands or submission. Respect, however, is the admiration for one another and the ability to understand that other people may view life differently than you. Seeing them for who they are and what their beliefs and rather than trying to mould them into what we think they should be defined as respect. Here are five signs of a disrespectful partner; Having someone who can listen to you at your best and worst moments in life is one of the essentials of a relationship so also is being an active and attentive listener. When you start to feel as though your partner is constantly giving you a lesser than average amount of attention or shows little interest when talking to you even, then that may be a sign that they don’t respect you enough. Signs of a disrespectful partner Photo Labzada Honesty and openness are underrated in the modern day relationship. An early sign or indicator of a disrespectful partner is one that constantly lies about trivial things as being open and honest with your partner is one of the building blocks of any healthy relationship. Lying to your partner makes them feel as though they don’t deserve to know the truth and this is not the best feeling. Noone ever wants to be the second option in any scenario which is why it is necessary to always consider your partner when making plans and not as an afterthought. If your partner doesn’t seem to care about making or keeping plans with you,or if your partner constantly prefers to spend time with friends rather than with you, then that’s a major sign of disrespect. Also showing up late to dinners, events or even cancelling at last minute could be a sign of disrespect. Although it is understandable that people react differently to misunderstandings, the only way to grow amidst occasional disagreements is to have an effective communication system. The silent treatment is a serious disrespectful manipulation tactic which according to Dr Fran Walfish a Psychotherapist, Author, and Relationship Expert,”The silent treatment functions to keep the receiver in suspense of what will happen, and unsure of what they did wrong and how bad it is. Most people can’t take what they dish which is why when your partner constantly speaks or jokes about being attracted or interested in someone else, then that is massively disrespectful of you and your relationship. When your catch or notice your partner staring at someone right in your presence, its a sign that they have little or no respect for you or your feelings.