American actress Michelle Williams is usually one to keep her love life under wraps. So, it was a surprise when she confirmed that she married Phil Elverum in a secret ceremony. The actress opened up to Vanity Fair that, by the time the article would be published, she would be married to the singer-songwriter in a ceremony in New York. Michelle Williams. Photo: Vanity Fair According to her, the ceremony was witnessed by their two daughters and a handful of friends. This comes months after she previously sparked rumours of an engagement in January at the Golden Globes when she showed off a heart-shaped diamond on her left hand. She was believed to be in a relationship with businessman Andrew Yeomans at the time. Williams met Elverum through a mutual friend and that led to a relationship Williams described as “very sacred and very special”. Elverum is an indie musician who records and performs under the name Mount Eerie. Williams lost her former partner, Heath Ledger in January 2008, when he died from cardiac arrest brought on by a prescription drug overdose. He was the father of her 12-year-old daughter, Matilda. Over 10 years after the tragic incident, Williams says, “I never gave up on love. I always say to Matilda, ‘Your dad loved me before anybody thought I was talented, or pretty, or had nice clothes.'” Phil Elverum. Photo: Vanity Fair She continued, “Obviously I’ve never once in my life talked about a relationship, but Phil isn’t anyone else. And that’s worth something. Ultimately the way he loves me is the way I want to live my life on the whole. I work to be free inside of the moment. I parent to let Matilda feel free to be herself, and I am finally loved by someone who makes me feel free.” In 2015, Elverum tragically lost his wife, illustrator and musician Geneviève Castrée, to pancreatic cancer. She was diagnosed with stage-four inoperable cancer, a diagnosis which came four months after the birth of their daughter. Months later, in July 2016 when their daughter was 18 months old, she passed away.