 Rauf Aregbesola  In an interview with The Guardian, Lawal, who was elected recently as youth leader said it was unfortunate for Osun State that previous governments neglected the impact youths could make in driving development. Meanwhile, the lawmaker representing Lagos East in the Senate, Mr. Gbenga Ashafa, has commended Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for his positive impact in the development of the state since he assumed office three years ago. Ashafa, who was among dignitaries at Ambode’s town hall meeting, which is the third in 2018 held at Ibeju Lekki, said the governor has successfully improved on the foundation laid by his predecessors, Bola Tinubu and Babatunde Fashola. Lawal said his first mandate, was youth inclusiveness in politics and transition into governance, noting that this is the time to take the bull by the horns. While he challenged Osun youths to stand up to the task, Lawal said: “You don’t expect a different result doing things the same way. As we can all see in 2015, Nigerians voted for a change, which has brought us where we are today in Osun State and Nigeria as a whole. “As much as I am gradually becoming the face of the youths in Osun, it would amaze you to know that the youth leader in APC is as good as a father to me. This implies youth inclusiveness has never been in place. “Youths have not been adequately encouraged to participate in politics and in governance. We are here to change the rhetoric and do things right. Youths are usually the engine room of any nation and the involvement of youths in governance cannot be overemphasized.” He said the recently passed ‘Not Too Young To Run Bill’ was a good start but that it could only be effective when the youths form a block and show the older generation that they are useful by getting more involved in politics and making positive impacts in the society. Lawal said the defection of a former senator, Chief Iyiola Omisore, from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and others to SDP was basically out of principle. Ashafa said the incumbent governor has impacted tremendously in the area of infrastructure, stressing thgat Lagos would definitely wear a new look by the time Ambode finishes his tenure. He, however, said for him to really achieve what we all desire in the state “the onus is on everybody, who craves for a new Lagos to re-elect the governor for second term in 2019.” The lawmaker particularly urged the electorate in Lagos East to get their Permanent Voter Cards (PVC) to return the ruling APC in 2019. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .