Prince Fatai Nurudeen (right) and Oto “Joe Boy” Joseph (left) during the national lightweight champion bout at GOtv Boxing Night 7 • Vows To Defend ABU Title• Joe Boy Will Regret Coming To Ibadan, Challenger Boasts
In 1962, Ibadan, the Oyo State capital hosted the first world boxing title fight in Africa, where Nigeria’s Dick Tiger defeated America’s Gene Fullmer to win the World middleweight boxing title. That historic fight, which took place at the Liberty Stadium, (now Obafemi Awolowo Stadium), shot Nigeria into the world boxing fame. Again, Ibadan will this afternoon witness another major boxing moment, as two promising boxers on the continent take to battle for the African Boxing Union (ABU) Lightweight champion’s belt. Homeboy, Oto Joseph, popularly known as ‘Joe Boy’ is the titleholder, while Ghana’s Nathaniel Nukpe is the challenger. The Ghanaian arrived in Lagos on Friday with his large entourage boasting that he would turn the heat on Joe Boy. “This ‘Joe Boy’ will regret coming to Ibadan for this GOtv Boxing Night 15,” the Ghanaian told The Guardian on arrival in Lagos, before heading to Ibadan. Another international bout lined up for today is the light middleweight challenge between Nigeria’s Akeem ‘Dodo’ Sadiku, and Franc Houanvoegbe of Benin Republic. The event, sponsored by GOtv and Bet King, also has a national challenge bout between ABU’s welterweight champion, Olaide ‘Fijaborn’ Fijabi, and Kazeem ‘Iberu’ Ariyo, as well as, a national cruiserweight clash between Michael ‘Lion Heart’ Godwin, and Idowu ‘ID Cabasa’ Okusote. Prince ‘Lion’ Nwoye will square up against Ridwan ‘Scorpion’ Oyekola in a national lightweight duel; Vincent ‘Dada’ Essien, and Segun ‘Showboy’ Olalehin, will trade punches in a national light welterweight contest, while Daniel ‘Big Shark’ Emeka, and Sulaimon ‘Olags’ Adeosun will slug it out in a national light heavyweight clash. The Managing Director of Flykite Promotions, organisers of the event, Jenkins Alumona, said yesterday, that everything had been put in place to ensure a hitch-free and successful event. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .