 APC leader, Adams Oshiomole  A letter to the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in the state signed by the National Vice Chairman (South South), Hilliard Eta, stated: “You are aware that the court has barred the illegal executive headed by one Hon. Etim-John from operating until the determination of the case in court.” In Katsina State, the party yesterday rescheduled its primary for the August 11 Katsina North Senatorial District bye-election. The position became vacant on April 4 following the demise of Senator Mustapha Bukar. The ban order on Cross River exco, coming on the heels of the Obudu State Constituency by-election also slated for August 11 by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) further read: “In the light of the above, I hereby advise that all communications relating to the election be directed to the office of the National Vice Chairman (South South).” The by-election was necessitated by the demise of Stephen Ukpukpen, who represented Obudu in the House of Assembly. Ita explained that the letter was necessary against rumours that the national secretariat of the APC had endorsed the Etim-John-led exco as the authentic executive body of the party in the state. He said: “National Vice Chairman (South South) of the party has denied the speculation, saying the national leadership was still dwelling on resolving the crisis within the party in the state. The national leadership was aware of the court injunction slammed on Hon. Etim-John and his exco, and therefore decided to toe the legal path. Except amicable resolution comes before the court verdict, the said exco remains barred until the determination of the suit challenging its authenticity.” The Katsina senatorial by-election, billed to hold today in Daura, was shifted following failure to choose a consensus candidate from 12 aspirants. The Guardian learnt that a stakeholders’ meeting to choose a consensus candidate, which held on Tuesday lasted into the early hours of Wednesday, deadlocked, as none of the candidates were willing to step down, with some of them insisting on primary for all 12 contestants. Following the deadlock, it was learnt that Governor Aminu Masari invited the contestants to the Government House to address the issue. However, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, according to reports, successfully held its primary for the vacant seat, and through affirmation elected Kabir Kaita, a retired Customs officer. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .