 pregnant Woman PHOTO:Pixabay  The changes resemble those seen specifically in the male offspring of mothers that were stressed during pregnancy. The study published in the journal Nature Neuroscience may lead to a better understanding of the way in which maternal insults such as stress affects the brain development of offspring. Microbes present in vaginal fluid colonise the gut during the birth process of passing through the birth canal, and the composition of this gut microbiome influences the brain’s development and how it its responds to stress later in life, according to the study. In mice, prenatal stress is known to alter the vaginal microbiota and affect male offspring’s brain function after birth, but it has not been clear how these brain changes are caused by the altered microbiota. Tracy Bale and her colleagues at the University of Maryland School of Medicine transplanted microbes from the vaginal fluid of either stressed or unstressed pregnant mice into both prenatally stressed and unstressed male offspring immediately after these babies were born by C-section, so were not exposed to the mother’s vaginal microbes. Bale found that the pups exposed to both stress in the womb and microbiota from stressed mothers had decreased body weights and growth and increased stress hormone levels as adults. They found that these effects could be partially reproduced in unstressed, newborn male offspring by transferring vaginal microbes from stressed mothers. Microbes from unstressed mothers, however, did not rescue the effects of stress in the womb, according to the researchers. These findings indicated that stress during pregnancy affected mice both directly during their gestation and indirectly by altering the vaginal microbiota of the mother. In humans, maternal stress during pregnancy is a risk factor for psychiatric disorders in offspring, but it remains unclear whether this risk is also influenced by the vaginal microbiota. “These results are very intriguing,” Bale said. “It is definitely worth investigating whether the effects we found in mice also hold true in humans.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .