 Kaduna State governor Nasir El-Rufai PHOTO: TWITTER/GOVERNOR KADUNA  The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) had claimed that no fewer than 35,000 workers were unfairly sacked in Kaduna State in the last three years under controversial circumstances.He also condemned the socio-economic challenges facing the citizens, adding that the level of insecurity in the state and the widening socio-political gap between the people of the North and Southern parts of the state was unacceptable. Ashiru, who was a two-time member of the state House of Assembly from 1999 to 2007 and member, House of Representatives (Kudan/Makarfi Federal Constituency) from 2007 to 2015, said this in Kafanchan, Jemaa Local Council, during a visit to ward officials and delegates in preparation for the party primaries in September. “Our state has never witnessed the kind of backwardness we are now facing. It is very unfair to lay-off thousands of workers at a time when other alternatives are hard. You cannot arbitrarily sack thousands of workers and refuse to pay them their entitlements knowing that thousands depend on then for survival.” “When you do so, you only create more insecurity and social problems. When I get the PDP ticket, our party will win the election and we shall look into the matter and ensure justice for all who were unjustly forced out of their jobs. I want to plead with them to endure for the next few months the present government will last,” he said.Ashiru disclosed that his team has made a blueprint for the rebuilding of the once bubbling Kaduna State economy and genuine reconciliation between the North and Southern parts of the state. “I have been privileged to travel throughout the state and I know every major village, while I was Chairman of Appropriation Committee of the KDHA,” he added.Meanwhile, former Kaduna State Commissioner of Information, Ben Bako and Director General of Honourable Isa Ashiru Campaign Organisation (HIACO), Ambassador Sule Buba, have reechoed the view that Ashiru was the best candidate that the PDP could offer if the party desired to return to power in Kaduna. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .