 Aptech  This, according to the Director, Aptech Computer Education, Lekki, Lagos, Joseph Ebinum, has become necessary if the country must play big in the comity of nations. Ebinum warned that Nigeria is being left behind by other countries of the world, including Africans, which have adopted favourable policies and created enabling environment for business growth. He said this at the 2018 Aptech Career Quest in partnership with Middlesex University, held in Lagos, where students were given 50 per cent scholarship on the course fee for Advanced Diploma in Software Engineering (ADSE) program. Speaking on the importance of ICT to national development, he said: “Today national development is hinged on political stability and ICT. In Nigeria, while in spite of our wealth, we are way behind in all indices of development in the whole world and it is so because we pay lip service to education, we don’t think about ICT. “Small countries like Kenya, Uganda, Botswana, even Ghana are thinking futuristically; all we are thinking of in Nigeria is how to cut corners. National development without education, without ICT which is the future of education is a joke so; we have a long way to go. “The government should create more ICT parks, that is, more computer education zone. They should fund education because education is our future. It is not the billions or the trillions that they call in every year’s budget that will develop the country, it’s the knowledge that people apply to using those resources, if you give money to a fool, the money is lost but if you give that same money to a wise man, the money will be reinvested and yield more money. “What development has our budget brought us since the last ten years?, .. We are not serious as a country so, my message to the government is, get serious with education, ICT, encourage those of us who are bringing out our resources. Education is not a very profitable sector of the economy. Government in most developed nations assists people like us to bring up people who will run the economy in very different section,” he stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .