 Simi  Aimasiko, which samples the classic hit by Chief Commander Ebenezer Obey (now Evangelist Ebenezer Obey) under the same title, preaches patience and perseverance. The video directed by Aje Filmworks features cameos from The Banjos and Ebenezer Obey. With Obey’s cameo in the 3mins 56 seconds video, it is hope that Simi will run not into trouble again seen in Joromi, a classic hit by veteran highlife singer and one-time Edo State Commissioner for Arts and Culture, Sir Victor Uwaifo. The veteran musician had called out Simi for failing to seek his permission before making the different remix of his song, Joromi. He stated that simply ascribing credit to him, as original composer of the song would suffice as permission.“They didn’t contact me before doing a remix of Joromi; but I’m like a father to them so I can’t begin to drag them to court, so let them make a living out of it, but at the same time it’s piracy.” “It’s one thing to be an artiste and it’s another thing to stay on the scene for a long time; so I will not discourage artistes trying to remix or do another rendition of Joromi, but rather encourage them to give credit to the composer if they do,” Uwaifo told Showtime in an interview. Born April 19, 1988, Simi started her career as a gospel singer, releasing her debut studio album titled Ogaju in 2008. Her career came into spotlight in 2014 after she released Tiff, a song that was nominated in two categories at The Headies 2015 and further brought her to mainstream recognition. In 2015, Ara Ile singer won the Most Promising Act to Watch category at the 2015 Nigeria Entertainment Awards. Upon the release of the single titled Jamb Question, which later featured Folarin Falana aka Falz D Bahd Guy in the remix, she was listed as one of the artistes to watch out for in 2016 by the online music platform, NotJustOk. On February 14, 2016, she released Love Don’t Care, an Oscar Heman-Ackah-produced ballad that condemns the discrimination of love because of tribal and social prejudices. The song was well received to positive critical reviews and massive airplay, whil the video for the song was shot and directed by Clarence Peters. In October the same year, Simi was nominated in the Best Breakthrough Act category at the 2016 edition of the MTV Africa Music Awards. On October 27, she collaborated with Falz to release Chemistry, a project Oghene Michael of 360Nobs described as an “experiment of the word art”. In December 2016, she was nominated in three categories at The Headies 2016 award, and won in one one category. 