•’Allegation untrue, unfounded’
A member of the state House of Assembly, Samuel Omotoso, has accused the standard-bearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Kayode Fayemi of threatening his life. He disclosed at a press conference that Fayemi had made several attempts on his life through his thugs. Omotosho, who is Chairman, House Committee on Information, alleged that his life was being threatened because he failed to support Fayemi’s aspiration. The lawmaker, who is from Oye local council area as the APC candidate, also linked Fayemi to recent destruction of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)’s Itaji ward 10 secretariat, which left that of the APC untouched. He stressed that some people sustained injuries in the attack, adding: “These People planned to kill me on June 28, when they invaded my community, Oloje Ekiti with guns, amulets and charms. “They searched for me at all cost during their ongoing blood-laced political rallies. When they could not find me, they vent their frustrations in the demolition of the PDP Secretariat.” Omotosho added that several armed mobile policemen tagged “Fayemi policemen,” also joined them in unleashing mayhem on the people with impunity. He claimed that they shot sporadically at innocent citizens, destroying many houses, while looting and assaulting three high chief who dared to ask them questions. He disclosed that the chiefs were arrested and locked up overnight at the police headquarters in Ado, without any reason. According to him, his position as the spokesman of the assembly, pitched Fayemi against him. He mentioned Fayemi’s alleged mismanagement of the SUBEB funds in 2013, and other financial improprieties, over which an Ekiti State Commission of Enquiry indicted him. “I am using this opportunity to alert the country, my immediate colleagues and the international community, including the U.S. and UK High Commissions that Fayemi should be held responsible, if anything happens to me,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .