 Member of CORBON  You shouldn’t compromise your professional standard no matter the details. The ministry is currently building skill acquisition schools to train Nigerians on the relevant skill needed to continue in the building industry.
 
“In the next few years to come, we should stop engaging foreigners to help us construct buildings. The new builders and all of us must be ready to do the right thing at the right time to save this nation from more collapse of buildings.”
 
Earlier in his address, the chairman of the council, Kabiru Bala bemoaned the high rate of building collapse in the country, attributing it to continuous inflow of quack builders into the profession.
 
He said that he is assured that the new inductees would apply the skills they have learnt to manage any construction project.
 
“The built environment has been characterised by poor quality project delivery with attendant incessant building collapses. Quackery is at the heart of this problem. We are therefore excited that these new set of builders will be of service and help in stemming the tide of quackery in the industry,” he said. The registrar of the council, Peter Kuroshi, also charged the inductees on the need to uphold professionalism and always acquire skills in the areas relevant to the building profession.
 
He urged them to hinge their professional decisions and conduct on the CORBON law and rules and regulations guiding building practice in the country.
 
“I advise that you should cultivate the attitude of attending conferences and workshops, immerse yourself more in intellectual resources, and interact with people that can make you become a better professional,” Kuroshi said.
 
He stated that the certificates and seals issued to them are the properties of the council, and therefore could be withdrawn when misused.
 
Idowu Yetomiwa, on behalf of the inductees, expressed gratitude to the board of the council, promising that the newly registered builders will be good ambassadors of the profession anywhere they find themselves. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .