The blood of 39-year-old Ndubuisi Nwokolo, a businessman murdered in his prime by the dreaded Ikanda boys in Onitsha is crying for justice. The late trader’s family is in anguish following the gruesome killing of their breadwinner. Since Nwokolo’s killers have been identified, the ball is now in the courts of the Anambra State police command to apprehend the suspects and make them face the full wrath of the law. The killer was allegedly identified as Ikanda (Ikechukwu Udensi), who hails from Azzia in Ihiala council area of Anambra State. He was reported to have collaborated with other suspects said to be at large. Nwokolo, a trader at Amazing Grace Plaza, main market, Onitsha, who hailed from Umunede, Ika North east LGA of Delta State and was a Business Management graduate of the University of Calabar, was butchered last week using woods and machetes, which made many youths in Onitsha go on rampage in protest.	 
The victim was rushed to Boromeo Hospital Onitsha where he was confirmed dead by a medical doctor and body deposited at the mortuary for autopsy. The deceased family has appealed to the police and the public to help in the arrest and prosecution of killers of their son who died last Friday. Mother of the deceased, Mrs. Kate Nwokolo, told newsmen that her son was not only a son of consolation and breadwinner to the family, but have also been taking care of his sick father for the past eight months. Wailing uncontrollable, the aged mother narrated that the incident started when Ndu resisted Ikanda from slapping an elderly okada man conveying him to his shop, fight ensued, prompting Ikanda’s gang to rush to the scene and allegedly mob Ndu to death. The bereaved mother who strongly called for justice, alleged that Ikanda had been arrested and detained several times but constant order-from-above have seen to his release each time he was arrested, because he was alleged to be working as thug to top politicians in the state. Also speaking, wife of the deceased and mother of his two little children, Mrs. Cynthia Nneka Nwokolo, narrated the sad ordeal prior to the death of her husband. “He was on his way to the market at about 10:00a.m. when he was stopped by the group led by one Udensi who claimed to be revenue collector for Anambra State government “They were said to have demanded N100 from the motorcyclist who told them he had no money as my husband was his first passenger. They started beating the old man, which prompted intervention of my husband who scolded them and brought out money to give them, but they descended on my husband and beat him till he died instantly.” “There is nothing the government and police can do for me than ensure that my husband’s killer is killed. I hope police would do the right thing and don’t allow it become one of those unresolved killings.” Meanwhile, the Anambra State police command has assured Ndi Anambra that it would fish out the killers of the trader and bring them to justice. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .