 Real estate  Tagged ‘The Overlook Condominiums’, the Brookstone noted that the project is centered between two of Ikoyi’s most prominent social and recreational establishments, the Ikoyi Club 1938 and the Lagos Polo Club, and will overlook the rarest views in Lagos. “We are truly proud of the work that our team has done to bring THE OVERLOOK to the forefront of luxury living in Lagos”, says Joe Orji, Managing Partner at Brookstone Property. “We’re creating a product that brings differentiation to the marketplace, a well-conceived resident experience and value for money. Those who purchase condos in the building will experience a true appreciation for refined quality and superior functionality.” “In line with our drive for perfection and unwillingness to compromise, we are proud to present THE OVERLOOK, a grade A residential condominium with unparallel views, functional and ample spaced layouts with top class finishes, says Atureta Emmanuel, Managing Partner at Brookstone Property. “We are excited to be part of THE OVERLOOK as the project structure, location and pricing is a unique offering in the Lagos real estate market, says Tayo Odunsi, CEO of North court. “This is an investment grade residential asset that will, in a couple years, become an icon on the Ikoyi landscape. Based on our market intelligence, the project will be coming on stream at a period when the rental market in Ikoyi is expected to have rebounded from its current levels, consequently, a fresh project of this nature will be a renter’s choice and to the investors delight,” Odunsi further explains. “The development is designed by internationally acclaimed design firm, ANA Designs, and is conceived with the vision to deliver a new standard to the market including, unparalleled views of an 18-hole golf course and international polo grounds, residences with grade A standard finishes plus stunning common area amenities, and large living spaces with attention to detail on the most efficient layouts”, the firm explained.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .