 FIFA President, Infantino and Pinnick .PHOTO: OrientalTimes  There were media reports earlier in the week that the midfielder, who recently signed for Stoke City in England, wrote a petition to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), calling for Pinnick’s head for refusing to pay him and other players after featuring for Warri Wolves FC. Pinnick was the Commander-in-chief of Delta Sports, calling the shots in the Sports Commission, Warri Wolves FC and Delta FA when Etebo and Super Eagles goalkeeper, Daniel Akpeyi featured for the club. According to the report, Etebo, who distinguished himself as one of Nigeria’s best players at the World Cup despite scoring an own goal in the match against Croatia, had petitioned the EFCC demanding payments of monies owed him by Warri Wolves FC under the leadership of Pinnick. But Etebo has denied writing or signing any petition against Warri Wolves FC or Pinnick over outstanding monies owed some players by the club. He said: “My attention was drawn to a newspaper report that myself and Daniel Akpeyi signed a petition against Warri Wolves. My picture was even used in the story, which is totally false and a calculated attempt to drag my name into something I know nothing about. “Since I left Warri Wolves, I have never complained about money to anyone, neither did I sign any petition. This story is meant to create distractions and confusion. I don’t want anyone to use my name to create confusion. I want to concentrate on my career. I think they just want to use my name and Akpeyi to score a point, but it is not fair.” Speaking with The Guardian yesterday on the issue, the chairman of Warri Wolves, Moses Etu said: “I don’t really know how the newspaper came about such story, but I can confirm that we just received a letter from Etebo dissociating himself from the petition to EFCC.” Etu, however, confirmed that some players were owed certain amount of money by the club before the present administration of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa came into office in 2015. “But the amount is not up to the N300 millin being quoted in the report.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .