 British Council  Already, the winner has been invited to an award ceremony by the agency. In further notification, the British Council said: “We hope that learners from your school will be encouraged in their future education and career by this recognition of their academic success. We look forward to congratulating more learners from your school in the future.” Founder and Managing Director of the school, Mrs. Emelia Akpan, enjoined the student to remain resolute in his academic pursuit.She noted that the feat is made possible due to hardwork from teachers and students as well as active collaboration and cooperation of parents. Akpan, who is the Vice President, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), frowned at increased cases of academic fraud, stressing that Nigeria is corrupt because the people and leaders believe in ‘short cut’ as a way of life.She regretted that such life style has affected the educational standard of the country and other sectors of the economy. Akpan said cheating is not an option in the school; as such students would not go far in their academic activities.“It is disheartening to hear that some parents help their children to cheat in examinations, what foundation are they laying? In our school, we train the children to imbibe the culture of righteousness in all they do and encourage parents to accept their ward’s performances as it is “ She thanked the Rivers State government for providing the enabling environment for Port Harcourt to contest with Lagos and excel. She said Showers as a school, was an attempt to show that Port Harcourt could give Nigeria some of the best brains without academic fraud.“The performance has demonstrated the new drive in education in south-south, Port Harcourt in particular. For Showers to take the best in a particular year under review is a message. The award is recognition of the best in the world and Showers took the best within the Nigerian scope. While calling on the state government to continue to support the campaign against academic fraud, she said, “Students and youths who shunned violence, exam malpractice and cultism should be encouraged. The state government must also learn to appreciate schools that excelled. There should be stakeholders’ forum annually where schools that have consistently brought honours to the state through external examinations like the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE), National Examination Council (NECO) as well as the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) and Cambridge exams can be recognised. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .