A man, aged 42 and identified as Tambaya Manu, was yesterday killed by a mob after allegedly killing his mother in-law, Aisah Barto , aged 40, in Kebbi State. The incident occurred at Bangu village in Mahuta town of Fakai Local Government Area of the state. An eyewitness, who pleaded anonymity, told newsmen that Manu had allegedly committed the offence after his in-laws refused him access to his wife, Aisha, who was with her parents after he had divorced her a month ago. “The couple had a disagreement, which led to divorce a month ago. Following the divorce, the wife had to relocate to her parent’s house. Several efforts to resolve the crisis and reunite the once-happy couple yielded fruitless results. “Tambaya decided to storm his in-law’s house to retrieve his wife but her family members refused. This prompted him to brandish his machete and slaughtered his mother in-law,’’ the source said. The source added that the mother in-law died instantly. “He also attacked two other members of the family but they were rescued by their neighbours. After committing the offence, he attempted to flee the scene but a crowd that had gathered overpowered him and mobbed him.” Confirming the incident, the Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Mustapha Suleiman, said his men found the village deserted when they got there. “Two people died in the incident – mother in-law and son in-law,” Suleiman said. Meanwhile, an Akwa Ibom High Court sitting in Ikot Ekpene has sentenced a man to death by hanging for killing his 11-year-old son for allegedly casting spells on his business. The man, Christopher Udoh, from Obot Akara Local Government Area of the state reportedly murdered his son, Gabriel, for indulging in witchcraft, which led to his many years of misfortunes. Justice Joy Unwana of the Akwa Ibom High Court (Ikot Ekpene Judicial Division), handed down the sentence, after finding the accused guilty of murder in line with Section 316 (1) of the Criminal Laws of Akwa Ibom State. The court held that the convict, who had already admitted committing the offence, deliberately killed his 11-year-old son for allegedly being behind his many years of unsuccessful stint in his business in Benin, Edo State. According to the convict, he had struggled for many years to take a big leap in his business, but later realised that his son, who he suspected of being a wizard, was responsible for his inability to make headway in business. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .