As part of a cultural event organised by Trace, the President of France, Emmanuel Macron, is on an official visit to Lagos where he will announce the launch of the Season of African Cultures 2020 in France. French President Emmanuel Macron stands at the entrance after a meeting with Israeli Prime Minister at the Elysee Palace in Paris, on June 5, 2018. / AFP PHOTO / LUDOVIC MARIN Global broadcast and digital afro urban media group TRACE will host and organise the high profile meeting between representatives of Africa’s creative industries and the President of France. TRACE has a strong track record of producing large-scale entertainment events on the continent and has played a long-standing role as a cultural bridge between France, Africa and the rest of the world. Entitled A Celebration of African Culture, the event will take place at the New Afrika Shrine, the home of the legendary Fela Kuti. Over a thousand VIP guests, including representatives from the African creative and arts sectors, have been invited to attend the multicultural event, with music provided by an almost exclusively female line-up featuring pan-African queen of afro-pop Yemi Alade and Cameroon’s Charlotte Dipanda. They will be joined by the New Afrika Shrine’s patron, leading performer and worthy heir to his infamous father, Femi Kuti. The evening is set to be a celebration of Africa’s diverse and rich cultural heritage and will honour talented creators from the worlds of art, design, fashion, and African cinema with a Nollywood scene being filmed live on the night by renowned Film Director, Kunle Afolayan. Olivier Laouchez, co-founder and Executive Chairman of TRACE, explains: “TRACE’s mission is to support, nurture, cherish and celebrate Afro-urban music and cultures and to bring them to the world because we believe that the world can only benefit from a better understanding of the richness and the diversity of these cultures, which have long been undervalued. It is for this reason that we have organized this momentous event, to launch the 2020 Season of African Cultures in France. One of the objectives of this Season is to change the French perception of the African continent through the promotion of contemporary African creation, and this is what TRACE strives to do every day.”