 Prof. Ishaq Akintola  We will not hesitate to rally behind them tomorrow if they vie for leadership positions.” These were the words of the Director, Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC), Ishaq Lakin Akintola, who declared that interest of the human right group is good governance and not religion. Akintola contined: “We would have given all our energy to support Tai Solarin, Dr. Beko Ransom Kuti, Chima Ubani and Ken Saro Wiwa who were all Christians had they contested for the post of president in their life time”. The Islamic human rights organization, explained the rationale behind its style of advocacy, which combines theocracy with democracy. Akintola, in a statement, insisted that its interest lies in progress for Nigeria and the welfare of Nigerian citizens. According to him, there is no personal relationship between it and President Muhammadu Buhari. “It is not about any close relationship or acquaintance. It is Buhari’s integrity that warms our heart. We marvel at his prudence, his simplicity and his altruism. He is simply a living legend. “These are the qualities which we cherish in Buhari. His political party does not matter to us. Some Nigerians are not being honest. All of us have been complaining for a long time that the problem with Nigeria is leadership. We accused our leaders of greed, avarice and selfishness. But today we have a leader who loves Nigeria more than himself but then we want to start listening to looters.” Akintola also cleared the air on insinuations that MURIC is supporting Buhari because the latter is a Muslim. He said: “It is not the religion. Check our records. Former military heads of state, late General Sani Abacha and General Ibrahim Babangida were Muslims but we fought them to a standstill. Again, there are many Muslims among Buhari’s opponents and critics yet we elect to oppose them. Former president Olusegun Obasanjo was a Christian but we supported his regime. The director insisted that the organization is head over heels in love with Nigeria and that love of the country is what drives the group. “Those who want to silence us peddle false allegations of politicization of MURIC but the truth is that MURIC is being driven by patriotism. We have a strong passion for good governance. We challenge anybody who has seen us attending any political meeting or rally to come forward. We are not in active politics,” he said. Akintola insisted that the organisation is strictly following the injunctions of the Qur’an by paying attention to the politics going on around it. He cited Qur’an 3:104 which says, “Let there arise a group among you that will be calling people to righteousness, commanding people to do good and forbidding them from committing evil, those are the successful ones.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .