In keeping to its promise of engaging and rewarding customers, leading Internet service provider, Spectranet 4GLTE, has rewarded the first set of winners in its World Cup promo.
  
Out of thousands of subscribers that participated in the promotion, 216 subscribers emerged as winners from a transparent draw observed by representatives of lottery regulatory bodies- National Lottery Regulatory Commission, Consumer Protection Council and the Lagos State Lotteries Board.
  
Olanrewaju Olapade emerged winner of the star prize-a trip to Dubai, while Bakare Abiola and Nzete Promise got Unlimited Data for one year.Others are Nzei Uche, Akinsipe Olaoluwa and Victoria Obenoh who were among 10 subscribers rewarded with 42” LED TVs just as 200 subscribers were given the privilege to choose either 7GB Data or Bluetooth speakers for purchasing Spectranet devices and subscribing to data plans in June when the promotion commenced.
  
Dubbed ‘Connect & Win Big,’ the promotion drummed support for Nigeria’s male national team as they jostled for honors at the 2018 FIFA World Cup.
Prior to the commencement of the draw, Chief Executive Officer of Spectranet, Ajay Awasthi said: “The innovative nature of Spectranet led to the initiative of rewarding customers for supporting the Super Eagles team in the World Cup.
  
Ajay further revealed that Spectranet is committed to excellent service offering with renewed and upgraded facilities that will continue to improve the subscribers’ experience of the brand even after the World Cup.
  
Commenting on the essence of the promotion, Head of Marketing, Mike Ogor said: “In the spirit of the World Cup, we took a decision to make subscribers enjoy the moments that the competition brings. Our fast and reliable Internet services have made this possible.
  
“This is the first draw of the promotion. Both existing and new subscribers are eligible to participate. More winners will emerge in the second and final draws scheduled to hold after the promotion.”One of the winners who responded to phone calls that he won a 42” TV set could not hold his excitement as he kept asking when and where he should come for his prize while thanking Spectranet for keeping the promise to reward subscribers who purchased modems within the period of the promotion.The promo, which commenced on June 1, 2018 ends on July 31, 2018.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .