Photo/ Fifa.com This could be the most balanced fixture in the quarter final games with the teams having played each other seven times. Out of the seven games, four ended up with a draw, Uruguay won twice and France walked away with a victory. The last time the two teams met was in 2013 for an international friendly, where Oscar’s Tabarez’s men won the game by a lone goal scored by Luis Suárez. The face-off is the toughest test yet for both sides. All eyes will be set on France’s talismanic teenager, Kylian Mbappe who rose up to the occasion during their second round game against Argentina, where he single-handedly steamrolled Argentina. He scored twice and carved out a penalty. The dogged team spirit of Oscar Tabarez’s side has seen them conquer tough challenges. Edison Cavani handed Uruguay their quarter-final ticket with his brace, but with his calf injury, the big question remains if Cavani will play the match today and it will be a worry as the twin threat of Uruguay’s front line will be shattered with Suarez having to lead the line alone. Read More: Expert predictions: Who goes through to the semi-finals? However, Uruguay can boast of a very strong defence. Uruguay have won all their games and have conceded just the one goal so far. Interestingly, the fixture promises a few reunion. Antoine Griezmann and Lucas Hernandez face off with Atletico Madrid team-mates Diego Godin and Jose Gimenez, while Paris Saint-Germain strike partners Edinson Cavani and Kylian Mbappe also cross paths. Diego Godin and Jose Gimenez should curtail the pacy Mbappe while their underwhelming club team-mate Antoine Griezmann shouldn’t be a big worry. Possible line-ups
Uruguay: Fernando Muslera; Martin Caceres, Jose Maria Gimenez, Diego Godin, Diego Laxalt; Nahitan Nandez, Lucas Torreira, Matias Vecino, Rodrigo Bentancur, Luis Suarez, Edinson Cavani/Cristhian Stuani France: Hugo Lloris; Benjamin Pavard, Raphael Varane, Samuel Umtiti, Lucas Hernandez; N’Golo Kante, Paul Pogba; Kylian Mbappe, Antoine Griezmann, Corentin Tolisso; Olivier Giroud To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .