PHOTO: ATIKU ABUBAKAR/GUARDIAN NIGERIA The Atiku Renaissance Group has accused the Federal Government of planning to link former Vice President to the raging killings by herdsmen in parts of the federation. Its Secretary-General, Awwal Tahir, citing a purported security report from a Defence Intelligence Agency source, alleged that top politicians in the presidency planned to indict Atiku on the massacres. In a statement yesterday, he alleged: “On June 25, 2018, we received an intelligence report from a trusted personnel of the Defence Intelligence Agency (DIA) of a grand plot by top politicians in the presidency to link the unabating herdsmen’s attacks across the country to former Vice President Atiku Abubakar. “However, we were presented with documents detailing the same plot by personnel of another intelligence agency last week.” President Muhammadu Buhari had recently stated that some politicians might be behind some of the killings in the country. Though he did not mention names. Atiku is eyeing the presidential ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to stand against Buhari in next year’s general elections. A source close to his campaign organisation said erstwhile vice president might kick off his campaign tomorrow. Tahir noted that the DIA source also provided all documents regarding the plot against the presidential aspirant, but decided to “keep calm not to heighten the already tension-soaked political atmosphere.” He also accused unnamed intelligence agencies of opening “phony accounts in Atiku’s name linking a funding scheme between the accounts and militias from North Africa.” He described the alleged plan as “obnoxious, the height of crude politics, a decimation of our societal values and conscious assault on our hard-earned democracy.” The scribe urged the Federal Government to find lasting solutions to the massacres nationwide. “We believe that if the Federal Government takes so much time and resources deployed into perfecting this evil endeavour to proffer solutions to the consistent attacks across the country, the lives of Nigerians would have counted for something,” Tahir stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .