 Femi Gbajabiamila  Gbajabiamila spoke in Lagos while presenting fire extinguishers and balls to traders in markets in his Surulere constituency. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that five markets in Surulere benefitted from the items presented by the lawmaker at the New Tejuosho Ultra-Modern Market. [Aad] Gbajabiamila said APC remained strong despite the defection of lawmakers mainly to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He maintained that the development had not eroded the faith of Nigerians in the ruling party. “It is no more news that some National Assembly members announced their defection from our great party to other political parties. “For some of us in the house, we had expected it. There had been so much noise about the defection plans before Wednesday both at the Senate and the House of Representatives. “In fact, what they were saying was that about 80 and 70 of them were leaving, but at the end of the day, the threat did not reflect the reality, as only about 32 or so left the APC. “Let me assure you that the APC is still much on ground, even with the defection. The party still remains strong despite the development. “Go to the North, the South, the East, the popularity of the APC is soaring by the day. Nigerians have great faith in our party. “This defection will not distract the APC from its course of doing its best to the generality of Nigerians,” he said. The lawmaker said the majority of those who defected used to be in the PDP and had returned to where they truly belonged. He explained that APC was built on strong and sound development ideologies that were only shared by genuine leaders. Gbajabiamila said the presentation of the items was in redemption of his electoral promise to impact on people in Surulere. The lawmaker said the gesture was also help promote safety in the markets in the area, with the ultimate goal of protecting lives and property. He urged the traders to put the fire prevention materials to good use in order to protect lives and valuables from fires. Gbajabiamila thanked the people of Surulere for their support for him, saying he would continue to do his best as their representative. Also speaking, the APC Chairman in Surulere,Alhaji Shakiru Ajao, commended the people for their faith in the party and the lawmaker. He said the party would continue to deliver the goods to better the lots of the people of the area. The Market Leader of Tejuosho Market, Alhaja Naheemat Fadimuluyi, thanked the lawmaker for the items, promising good use by her market and other markets. She said the leadership of markets in the area would also engage traders on the need to adopt safety precautions against fire outbreaks. The market leader also promised to support Gbajabiamila in his efforts at impacting on lives in Surulere. NAN reports that officials of the Federal Fire Service in Lagos were at the occasion to demonstrate how to use the safety materials to traders.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .