 Lolu  Released every Thursday by 6pm, the videos address societal, personal issues, there’s also the entertainment aspect and little of everything. With each video dedicated to a particular topic, the first season, which is somewhat reminiscent of the diary sessions in the Big Brother house, has 12 episodes. “I’m really excited about this and I hope that it resonates as much impact,” Lolu said. The Sociology graduate from the University of Ilorin with a minor in Politics and Business, said he’s working on partnering with international cooperate bodies to help improve and develop skills for young people. “It will be nice for us to invest in them and help them succeed as much as possible. I’m also working with cooperate bodies to be the face a brand or the brain behind an initiative or campaign; meetings have commenced. I plan to go back to school soon and eventually politics and philanthropy is the goal. I feel like I have enough to serve, but at this point, Big Brother only gives me the capacity to contribute from advisory and not elected role. Elected role will take a lot of popularity and clouds, I am just keen in taking up advisory role in 2019, just to serve and also learn the ropes of politics ahead. My goal is to eventually be the governor my state, Ogun.” He continued: “I’m a proud indigene, but I feel that will limit me a bit, so, I rather start from Federal level and gradually work my way into the state. Then, I will have enough clouds to be able to say I’m under this party and I’m running to be the governor of the state.”
 
Commenting on the ‘Not too young to run’ bill, the On-Air-Personality and investment banker described it as an amazing bill, adding, “Nigerian youths now see a genuine reason to take active part in politics. It is way of showing us that we have a part to play and there is a belief in what the youths could do for our country and securing a future for the generations unborn. I also feel that it shows the government is forward thinking about those, who will be in charge of the affairs of the country when their generation fades away. So, it’s nice that we are able to participate in politics at a young age. Eventually when we get to the age of vying for presidency, we won’t be novices,” Lolu’s passion for philanthropy could be traced to his humble background. “I grew up from a very lowly home and so I know what it is like not to have. There are so many people who do not have an idea of where their next meal is coming from. Not too long ago, we were voted one of the poorest cities in the world and that shows that there is a lot to be done to improve the lives of people; I will be more than happy to help with the little that I have. Widows and children are very dear to my heart, when my mother died we gave all her stuff to widows and that has stayed with me for a very long time. In the event that I can afford and maybe partner with some few organisations, I will be more than happy to help,” he said.
 
If given the opportunity to return to Big Brother house, Lolu will remain Lolu. “What makes a man is his ability to be responsible for his actions. Everything I did there was with an open mind and if I go back to Big Brother today, it will be the same. Why will I want to change anything when being myself got me into the house in the first place,” he quizzed. On lessons learnt from the reality show, he said, “first, never judge a book by its cover. Secondly, you learn the most amazing things from the most abnormal situations. Everybody has something to bring to the table; understanding that fact helps you live with them better. People are not going to always agree with you and that is fine. Finally, give people a chance; these have helped me to become a better person, the amount of growth I experienced in Big brother, I can’t get it anywhere else.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .