 Kayode Fayemi<br />  The party commended the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), security agencies, local and international observers, as well as other stakeholders for their admirable role in the election. According to the statement, the outcome of the poll was a demonstration of the people’s trust and confidence in the ability of Fayemi’s to deliver on his campaign promises. Abdullahi assured the people of Ekiti, and indeed all Nigerians, that the APC was best placed to move the country forward, and resolve the country’s problems. Also, a caucus of the House of Representatives, led by Femi Gbajabiamila, congratulated the governor-elect, and expressed gratitude to the people for their show of support for the APC at the poll. Similarly, the Ekiti State chapter of the party lauded Fayemi and his running mate, Bisi Egbeyem.In a statement by the APC Chairman in the state, Jide Awe, the party thanked the electorate for voting conscientiously for the party.He expressed gratitude to the people for their impressive turnout, and to President Muhammadu Buhari for his invaluable support towards the victory. He appealed to the opposition parties and their candidates to accept defeat in good faith, while seeing acceptance of the outcome as a no victor, no vanquished situation.He said: “The Ekiti electorate have voted for the candidate of their choice, whom they consider to have proven track record of performance and integrity. “They voted for someone who would bring about the kind of turnaround that the state needs at this crucial period, through focused leadership, good governance, and the restoration of cherished values and multi-faceted development.” The chairman urged Governor Ayo Fayose, and his political godson, Dr. Olusola Eleka, who was the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to accept and respect the resolved wishes of the people. Awe commended the timely action of the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC), in averting crises that Fayose would have caused by using the state owned radio station to broadcast contrary results, as he intended, to confuse the people. Also, the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Rochas Okorocha, Mr. Sam Onwuemeodo, congratulated Fayemi in a statement.Okorocha, who is the Chairman of the Progressive Governors Forum, described the victory as resounding.He said the victory has again brought the southwest to the forum of the progressives. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .