This week, the days kept bringing with it, milestone achievements. From hitting gold with performances to topping music charts, this week was the week we were hoping for. These are the stories that made our week… Cardi B. Photo: Twitter Cardi B continues to shatter records with her hit tracks. Her summer song, I Like It featuring Bad Bunny and J Balvin has peaked at number 1 on the “Billboard Hot 100 chart”. This feat makes her the first female rap artist to have two songs (Bodak Yellow and I Like It) top the chart. Visibly excited in her Instagram post, she said she “slept on this record because of two verses on the song…is in Spanish” before doing and did what she knows how to do best: twerking. Adekunle Gold performing at Indigo O2. Photo: MTC Alternative and Afropop singer, Adekunle Gold gave a brilliant performance at the sold-out #About30 concert held at London’s Indigo at the O2. Bringing his heritage to stage, he thrilled the audience with the African culture including dances. His sister rendered an “oriki” while flanked by a Yoruba talking drummer. The soulful singer, Simi, joined him on stage to give her renditions but what caught our attention was the close attempt to kiss each other fueling rumours that the two are secretly dating. Also, Simi’s tummy looked unusually bigger forcing fans to ask her if she is pregnant. Seyi Shay and Vector in Lara and the Beat The premiere of summer film Lara and the Beat will hold today, July 8 in what is poised to be an exciting evening of fabulous fashion, mesmerising music and much more. The film centres on the young and beautiful Giwa sisters caught in the middle of a financial scandal with their late parents’ Media Empire. The sisters are forced out of their privileged bubble and must learn to build their own future – through music and enterprise – to salvage their family’s past. The film features Seyi Shay, Somkele Iyamah, Chioma Akpotha, Vector, Chinedu Ikedieze, Uche Jombo, and DJ Xclusive. Kabiyesi O! Davido with the Ooni. Photo: Twitter BET’s Best International Act and one of Nigeria’s most loved artist, OBO Davido, visited the Ooni of Ile-Ife, HRM Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi. During his visit to Osun for a concert titled Son of the Soil, the Osun state indigene paid homage to the monarch at his palace as he shares the pictures of his warm reception on his social media
platforms. A true son, he lay prostrate while the Ooni showered him with prayers. Trust the lover boy, Chioma “his assurance” was there with him. Drake Cover Art. Photo: Allegro album art Drake is in the spotlight this time for the right reasons. His recently released album, Scorpion has received positive criticisms and achieved unprecedented success with Apple Music and Spotify. While Apple Music stated that his fifth studio album was streamed 170 million times in 24 hours, Spotify said its users streamed the 25-track album more than 132 million times the first day despite being two hours late on Spotify. The album features legends including Michael Jackson is posthumously featured on the track and Jay-Z. He also admitted to having a son with Sophie Brussaux just as Pusha T revealed.