 Abiola Ajimobi, Oyo State Governor  Ajimobi made the call in Ibadan on Wednesday during a Capacity Building Programme organised for newly elected Local Government Chairmen and Heads of Local Government Administration. The governor, who was represented by Dr Gbade Ojo, his Chief of Staff said that the local government chairmen were expected to have prepared three-year action plan for their respective councils. “Such action plan must identify the status of your communities, whether it is urban, semi-urban or rural and the developmental needs of the people.’’ He also challenged the chairman to build better inter-governmental relationship to help in facilitating meaningful development to the councils. Ajimobi also counselled them on the need to develop better understanding of Public Private Partnership (PPP) for the development of their councils. “You must think of how to drive your council revenue out of the monthly statutory allocation from federal government. You have to be more innovative. “You must also be mindful of the anti-corruption agencies. Your election does not empower you to misbehave, if you do , you can be removed by the State House of Assembly. “You also need to cultivate very good relationship with the media, which is a very important tool,” the governor said. Ajimobi further urged them not to compromise their loyalty to the party, adding that they were  elected on that platform. “We have been monitoring some of you following aspirants all about. None of you has been given any directive of such by the leader. “You are not elected to be campaign managers for aspirants.” Mrs Hannah Ogunesan, State Head of Service, urged the chairmen and heads of administration in the councils to shift from the old ways of doing things and be innovative. “Matters of the state border on development. If you want to move this state forward, you must be ready to give all it takes,” she said. Earlier, Mr Bimbo Kolade, the Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters, also urged participants to make good use of the knowledge they acquired from the training. Kolade stated that the essence of the programme was to equip the participants with the knowledge about purposeful governance and how it could be evolved. Some of the participants expressed optimism that the programme would help them, a lot, in transforming their various councils. Mr Abass Aleshinloye, the Chairman, Oluyole Local Government and Bashorun Adekunle Oladeji of Aare Latoosa Local Council Development Area, described the workshop as a good initiative. The duo and their Itesiwaju Local Government Council counterpart, Mr Niyi Adeagbo, promised to give their best in transforming their areas, as expected. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the 2-day capacity building workshop, held at Grand Serene Hotel, Iyanganku quarters in Ibadan would end on Thursday.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .