Alhaji Lasisi Oluboyo, the bereaved father of the Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko final year student, Khadijah, who was allegedly murdered for ritual purpose, has resigned to fate over the death of his first child. The deceased was murdered under mysterious circumstances by her Abuja-based boyfriend, Adeyemi Alao, in Oke-Aro area of Akure metropolis. Oluboyo, who confirmed to journalists that her daughter was killed for ritual purpose on Monday, disclosed that the family discovered she was missing on Monday, July 2, 2018. “Somebody called us that she was missing. We started looking for her. We got in touch with her friends in the school. The closest friend told us that they finished lecture on Thursday. They took the same motorcycle to their houses. “On Friday, they had no lecture, when the friend got to the lecture room on Monday and did not see her, she started calling her numbers.” The father, who is the immediate past Deputy Governor of the state, revealed he sent “the money for her feeding on Friday, the usual thing is that when she got bank alert, she would call me back to thank me. “But this day, I did not get a response from her. I told her mother and she started calling her. The phones were switched off. On Monday, we started calling her number and it did not get through. Later the phone rang, they picked it and we were hearing an underground sound. “The phone switched off again. Later we got a text that the mouthpiece of the phone is not good and that she would call when she changed the sim card to another phone. With that, we thought that everything was settled. We were waiting anxiously for the call.” He noted that Khadijah’s friend even contacted the family that she too had been calling her number to no avail, adding that “the same person sent a message to that her friend that she was on her way coming.” Establishing the relationship between late Khadijat and Alao, the father said, “It was then I got to know that she came to Akure to meet that boy. From what the father told us, there is no doubt that they were once boy and girlfriend. “They met each other at College of Education, Ondo. When we started looking for the girl, the father called me, he said he is the father of Adeyemi, he said my daughter came to their house on Thursday and left on Friday morning. “He said she used to come in the past but stopped suddenly, that she was the type he wants his son to marry. I  said we were not talking of marriage and that we were looking for her. The man called and started praying. When we called, the boy said she came on Thursday and left on Friday.” While exposing the ruse kidnap scenario to cover up for her six days disappearance, the ex-Deputy Governor recounted that “my daughter had four numbers. She had two handsets, one with two sims, one with one sim. “The old number she was using was kept in her bag. What happened was that when we tracked the first number, it went off immediately after Roadblock at Owo. The second number went off after Oba-Akoko. “That gave us the impression that she was travelling and that she was going back to school. We got it on good authority that she came to Akure. That gave us belief that she was going back. “When they sent a message that we should wait for negotiation team, we discovered it was one of the numbers in her bag that they used to send the message to us. It was a perfect arrangement to buy time.” Revealing how the mysterious disappearance which led to the death of her daughter was unravelled, he narrated that “when we tried our best, we organized prayers. When we finished with the prayers, he got the hint and said he cannot continue. “He rushed out and confessed to his immediate sister. He said this is what I did; I cannot cope, go and help me carry sack. The sister rushed to the father and narrated the story.” Contrary to widespread speculations that Alao just dumped the decomposing body of the victim under his bed, Oluboyo affirmed that “the boy dug a grave in his room, buried her and put his foam on the grave and was sleeping on the grave. She was not found under the bed, the boy has no bed. “The boy killed her for ritual purposes. It is not that the girl was not well-fed. The lady did not go there on her own volition. To me, I don’t want anything. God’s judgment is more than all the human’s verdict. The danger is that if you allow him to go scot-free, he would do it again.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .