Less than 24 hours after two suspects who ran away from the custody of policemen were re-arrested, another serial car snatcher, Olayemi Adeoye, (27), was nabbed for the umpteenth time by the Ondo State police command. Adeoye, who is an expert in stealing Honda and Toyota cars in the state, was paraded at the command yesterday in Akure alongside two other suspects that were accomplices to the crime. The Guardian gathered from police sources that the suspect stole 25 cars in 2015 and seven cars this year, and was just released from a criminal charge on June 15. Renowned for his solo operation, the suspect was arrested and charged to court twice, after attaining a criminal feat of stealing 32 vehicles in three years. While addressing newsmen, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Mr. Femi Joseph, said the suspect was rearrested on July 12, at about 4:00p.m. at Shasha Area of Akure while attempting to steal a Toyota Corolla car. According to him, the car, with registration number SS719AAA, belongs to one Mr. Olanipekun of Oba-Ile Estate but was driven by his wife. “There is this guy called Olayemi Adeoye whose stock-in-trade is to go to where any vehicle is parked, he has his master key that he uses to open any car, he would just go in there, switch on and go away with it. “But luck ran against him few weeks ago at Shasha area, Akure when he wanted to steal a car that belongs to one Mr. Olanipekun. Police quickly arrested him and took him to our office and interrogated him. “He confessed to numerous theft of vehicles that he has his master key that he normally uses to steal any vehicle. He has once been arrested by the members of anti-kidnapping, not for kidnapping but for stealing. “We were shocked to always see him anytime we charge him to court but we are surprised to see him coming back to the society trying to do what he knows how best to do. We want to promise you this time around we will ensure he goes to that institution and finish his course there even if he is going to come back. He has been arrested twice and charged to court in this state.” The other suspects were: Waheed Anifowose, a vulcanizer at Araromi Igoba, Akure, who also specialised in selling all vehicles stolen by the principal suspect, Adeoye, and Paul Ayeni, a tailor. Also parading two Honda CRV jeeps and master-key alongside the suspects as exhibits, the police boss said investigation was in progress to recover other vehicles pilfered by the suspects. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .