 Liverpool’s Egyptian midfielder Mohamed Salah applauds the crowd after being substituted during the UEFA Champions League first leg semi-final football match between Liverpool and Roma at Anfield stadium in Liverpool, north west England on April 24, 2018. / AFP PHOTO / Oli SCARFF Mohamed Salah has signed a new five-year deal with Premier League side Liverpool. The Egyptian forward signed the new deal to extend his stay at Anfield till 2023 after his excellent debut season. The new deal does not include a release clause.  Salah, 26, joined Liverpool from AS Roma for £34m last summer before he scored an impressive 44 goals in 52 appearances. “I think this news can be seen for what it is; rewarding a person who performed and contributed greatly for the team and the club last season,” Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp said. “It demonstrates two things very clearly also – his belief in Liverpool and our belief in him. Salah took the Premier League by storm, scoring 32 goals to win the Golden Boot. He also won the PFA player of the year award and the Premier League player of the year award. Alongside Sadio Mane and Roberto Firmino, he fired Liverpool to fourth place in the league. Klopp sees the extension as a statement and an opportunity to further strengthen the side. “We want world-class talent to see they have a home at Anfield where they can fulfil all their professional dreams and ambitions – we are working hard together to achieve this. “When someone like Mo Salah commits and says this place is my home now, it speaks very loudly I think.” After signing the new contract, Salah thanked his fans and the club before reflecting on his first season. “I’m very happy to say I have signed a new contract with the club,” he said. “My first year at the club was an incredible experience for me and my family. I have to thank everyone at Liverpool and also the supporters. “I know we can achieve a lot of things together.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .