France lift the trophy as World Champions after defeating Croatia at the Luzhniki Stadium. FIFA. com/Getty Images France are world champions after defeating Croatia in the final at the Luzhniki stadium in Moscow. The dramatic final had a bit of VAR drama as the referee Nestor Pitana had an on field review of a penalty incident that got France the second goal after Mario Mandzukic’s own goal put France ahead. Ivan Perisic scored a spectacular goal to pull Croatia level before Griezmann scored the VAR awarded penalty. Paul Pogba scored a cracking effort from outside the area to put France comfortable with a two goal advantage before Kylian Mbappe made history to become the second teenager in history to score in the World Cup after the legendary Pele. Hugo Lloris’ blooper gave Croatia a semblance of a way back but the French defense held as they withstood Croatia’s assault on their goal in search of goals. France’s world cup win makes their coach Didier Deschamps the third person to win the World Cup as both a player and a manager. Full time: France are the world champions! France 4-2 Croatia Allez Le Bleus! Allez Le Bleus!! Allez Le Bleus 90 + 4 min: Mbappe and Pogba have the ball in Croatia’s danger area but Pogba fritters away the chance. Another chance for France from a free-kick as Vrsaljko scythes down Griezmann. Mbappe finds Pogba from the free kick, the midfielder fails to pull off what would have been a spectacular volley. 90 min: There will be five minutes of additional time. Enough for Croatia to get two goals? 89 min: It’s Rakitic’s turn to try to force the issue. His shot high and off target as the French defence continues to hold tight and remain solid 87 min: Subasic saves easily as Fekir fires from range. Lloris on the other end also gathers comfortably as Croatia hold out hope for a miracle. 83 min: A quickly taken free kick is called back by the referee Nestor Pitana. Rakitic collapses to the ground in disbelief. The free kick is eventually taken to the referee’s satisfaction but is easily gathered by Lloris 80 min: Lovren’s cross is disappointing as Croatia lays siege to France’s goal. Oliver Giroud is substituted as Nabil Fekir takes his place. Croatia also replace Ivan Strinic with Marko Pjaca 77 min: Close! Raktic’s left footed shot inches wide of Lloris’ goal. It’s the 14th shot of the Croats against France’s seven. 75 min: Croatia with extended pressure on the French goal as they try to claw their way back into the game. Only 15 minutes left now. Mandzukic!  Gooalll! Croatia handed a lifeline by a howler by Hugo Lloris. The goalkeeper tried to dribble past Mandzukic but the striker had a touch and scored. Manic game now. France 4-2 Croatia Mbappe with precise finishing from outside the area as he shifted away from Vida to get an angle. His fierce, angled strike beat Subasic as France can smell the World Cup trophy. GOALL!!! Mbappe makes it four for France. He becomes the second teenager to score in a World Cup final. France 4-1 Croatia Mbappe was in space on the right where he hit a low cross that found its way to Griezmann. Griezmann with his back at goal laid the ball for Pogba who hit a shot the first time before he had a second shot. GOAL!!! France score a third. Paul Pogba scores after a second crack at goal. France 3-1 Croatia 58 min: Croatia looking to force their way back into the game as Perisic’s cross doesn’t get to Mandzukic France Substitution: Kante is substituted as Nzonzi replaces him 53 min: Mbappe beats Vida for pace on the right as he races into the box. Mbappe under some pressure from the back tracking Vida shoots towards goal by Subasic makes himself big to keep the scoreline as it is. 47 min: Rebic fancies a chance from an acute angle as he shoots with his weaker left foot. Lloris saves and puts it out for a corner kick. 46 min: And we are back underway. Half time! +3 additional time 45 min: Ball possession: France: 39%, Croatia: 61%. 44 min: Corner kick taken by Rakitic. A dangerous one! Cleared….  France player goes down. Play stopped. 43 min: A dangerous free-kick into the box by Modric. Cleared! Corner 41 min: Hernandez is shown a yellow card for reckless tackle. 40 min:  Perisic volleys a shot on target, but too soft for Lloris is on hand to save it 38 min: France 2 – 1 Croatia France have their lead back. Griezmann scored from spot kick. Penalty for France as a result of VAR! Goal scorer for Croatia touched the ball in the box. Griezmann for the penalty 34 min: The referee has stopped the game and is going to watch a video review for a situation. Just one man matters now. It is the referee! 33 min: Corner kick for France 30 min: Ball possession: France: 42%, Croatia: 58%. 29 min:  France 1 – 1 Croatia GOAL!!!! Ivan Perisic AGAIN! Takes delivery from Modric! And you know what happens in the box! Croatia just levelled!!!!! 26 min: Yellow card for Kante, trips Ivan Perisic 24 min: Luka Modric crosses the ball into the box from the free kick, Lloris relieves the pressure by punching 21 min: Vida header goes wide, Goal kick for France 20 min: A free-kick to be taken by Modric. Fouled by Kante. The first own goal ever scored in the World Cup final and the 12th own goal of this World Cup 19 min: GOAL!!!!! A own goal scored by Mandzukic! 18 min: Free kick by Griezmann! 17min: Great skill from Kylian Mbappe as he dribbles past his Croatia defender. But was cleared by Vida  16 min: play stopped.  Croatian player down 15 min: Ball possession: France: 42%, Croatia: 58%. 13 min: Samuel Umtiti sends a long ball but Giroud couldn’t pick it. Goal kick for Croatia 12 min: A clear chance for Ivan Perisic biut had a bad first touch and fails to benefit from his team mates cross. 10 min: Ball possession: France: 44%, Croatia: 56%. 9 min: First corner taken by Modric.  Pavard relieves the pressure with a clearance 8min:  Strinic from Croatia directs a ball squarely in the box, but it’s intercepted by an opponent player. 4 min: Croatia looking more confident. Keeping the ball possession. Pulling a threat on France’s defence. But nothing comes of it. 2 min: Luka Modric concedes the first free-kick of the game with a foul on Samuel Umtiti as he puts the French central defender under pressure early doors. 1 min: Croatia kick We have the both teams in thier home jerseys. Croatia wearing red and white check shirts, white shorts and white socks. The players of France wear navy blue shirts, shorts and socks. 0min: Time for action. Good luck, France and Croatia! The World Cup is up for grabs! Former German international Philipp Lahm returns the World Cup trophy for a new team to claim. Today’s referee: Argentinian referee Nestor Pitana has been given the honour of officiating the final of the FIFA World Cup 2018. The closing ceremony is under way: Headlined by Will Smith, Nicky Jam and Kosovian artist Era Istrefi singing the World Cup anthem Live It Up, it says here. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .