• Govt seals buildings for environmental contravention About 137 suspected cultists have been apprehended for alleged unlawful assemblage and initiation into membership of secret cult.The suspects, arrested in a hotel in Ikorodu and Ogombo areas of Lagos State by operatives of the Anti- Cultism Unit, were said to be observing the ‘Seven day of the seventh month’ initiation in preparation to unleashing mayhem on the larger society. 120 of the suspects were apprehended in Ikorodu, while 17 were arrested in Ogombo; 33 of those arrested in Ikorodu are females. The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Edgal Imohimi, who paraded the suspects yesterday at the command headquarters, said the suspects had earlier been warned on Thursday, July 5, against the assemblage. Based on credible intelligence available to the command, the suspects were arrested at Ikorodu where they were observing 7-7 and undergoing initiation. Edgal disclosed that one big banner inscribed with 07 and black axe logo, a yellow keg containing three litres of liquid substance suspected to be skuchies, six small kegs containing skuchies, one big clay pot, two small calabashes and one locally made cut to size pistol were recovered from those arrested in Ikorodu. Meanwhile, the Lagos State government has sealed some buildings, located on Egbaiyelo Street, around the Tin Can-Coconut axis of Apapa-Oshodi expressway, for unsanitary practices, ranging from open defecation, dirty environment and illegal dumping of refuse among others.
 
Giving the sealing order during the commencement of cleaning intervention of the Apapa area of the state at the weekend, the Commissioner for the Environment, Mr. Babatunde Durosinmi-Etti, said the government had the duty to promote the welfare of all residents by safeguarding the environment. He warned residents who were in the habit of abusing the environment through different forms of infractions such as keeping unwieldy environment, littered with all kinds of articles, converting open spaces to dump sites, erecting illegal stall extensions and engaging in street trading to desist from these bad environmental behaviour or face serious sanctions from government.
 
Durosinmi-Etti, who emphasised that the Zero Tolerance for Environmental Nuisance Policy of the state was still very much in force, said government had the duty to promote the welfare of all residents by safeguarding the environment, stressing that no responsible government would fold its arms and allow the reckless attitude of a few to compromise the wellbeing of all Lagosians. According to him,  “we have no option than to act fast to nip this kind of unpleasant development in the bud, if we must prevent the outbreak of epidemics in our State as dirty environment comes with serious hazards.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .