Carl Ikeme has started training ahead of Super Eagles’ Russia 2018 World Cup qualifying matches against Cameroon. Carl Ikeme has announced his retirement from the professional game on Friday. Ikeme, 32, announced the news to his Wolverhampton teammates before a training session. His retirement comes after consultations with medical experts. Ikeme was diagnosed with acute Leukemia when he returned abnormal blood results during pre-season in July 2017. He announced in June that he was in complete remission from acute leukaemia after ‘ a tough year and intense chemotherapy’. Wolves executive chairman Jeff Shi said in a statement: “Having been at the club since the age of 14, Carl is far more than just a player in our eyes – he is our brother and an important part of our family. “When Carl came to tell us his news, yes there was sadness, but also great happiness to see him so healthy and hungry for the opportunities that lay ahead of him. Read More: Carl Ikeme reveals leukaemia is in remission “Carl is strong, a fighter, something he has proven in his playing career and also during what has been a very challenging time for him, so I have no doubt he will be a success in whatever he does next. “We wish Carl all the very best for the future, but remind him he will always remain a part of the Wolves family.” Wolves sporting director Kevin Thelwell said: “I’m looking forward to seeing more of Carl this season, and seeing him back at Molineux where he belongs.” English Championship sides and the Goalkeeper Union paid tributes to the Ikeme as the goalkeeper thanked everyone. Ikeme joined Wolves as a 14-year old and played over 200 times for Wolves before hanging his gloves. He was regarded as the 24th player on the Super Eagles team at the World Cup by Nigeria coach Gernot Rohr. Rohr also stated that his greatest regret was that Ikeme was not with the side. The goalkeeper has 10 caps for Nigeria.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .