Injured people are evacuated after an explosion at the stadium in Bulawayo where Zimbabwe President just addressed a rally on June 23, 2018. An AFP correspondent reported multiple injuries but could not immediately give a precise toll after a blast at a ruling ZANU-PF party rally today. Images broadcast on Zimbabwean TV showed scenes of chaos and medics fighting to save those wounded by the blast at the White City stadium in the country’s second city Bulawayo. / AFP PHOTO / Ken MAUR / Zimbabwe OUT / Zimbabwe police said Tuesday they had arrested two suspects over the grenade blast at an election rally that killed two people and narrowly missed President Emmerson Mnangagwa. Police chief Gideon Matanga said investigations were continuing over the explosion in the country’s second largest city of Bulawayo on June 23. “I would like to applaud the level of cooperation and support that the joint investigation team has so far received, culminating in two suspects being accounted for,” Matanga said while addressing police officers in Bulawayo. “We will never rest until all those behind this heinous act have been accounted for and have their day in court.” Matanga declined to take questions from journalists or give further details. Last week two suspects who were in police custody on alleged terrorism and banditry charges failed to appear in court and were reportedly later released without charge. Police and security agencies have released few details about the investigation. Mnangagwa, who took power from veteran leader Robert Mugabe after a brief military takeover, has accused aggrieved supporters of Mugabe’s wife Grace of being behind the attack. About 50 people were injured in the blast, which exploded as Mnangagwa left the podium after addressing supporters of the ruling ZANU-PF party. Mnangagwa is facing off against main opposition leader Nelson Chamisa, 40, from the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) party, in a presidential race that has 23 candidates. Previous elections under Mugabe were marred by violence, intimidation and fraud. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .