Keynote Speaker, Dr. Nelson Uwaga, Vice – President and Promoter, Business Process Management Institute (BPMI) Mr. Debo Adebayo, President, National Institute of Maketing of Nigeria (NIMN) Mr. Tony Agenmonmen, President and Chairman of Council, Business Process Management Institute (BPMI) Dr. Yahaya Fufore and Council Member, BPMI, Victor Ugorji during the Investiture and Induction of fellows and new members of the Institute, in Lagos. To provide technical and professional knowledge, as well as ensure value delivery to the public through effective management and practice, a Business Process Management Institute (BPMI) has birthed in Nigeria. Speaking at the unveiling of the institution in Lagos, its Vice President and key promoter, Mr. Debo Adebayo, said BPMI was established to tackle the issue of lack of BPM related knowledge, to startups and Small and Medium Enterprises in Nigeria, which has huge negative effect. He lamented that the average SME was not aware of BPM and the value it could add to strengthen business operations, aid growth and give competitive advantage, adding, “if they knew, there would be more structured startups, competing favorably both locally and on the global playing field.” Adebayo disclosed that BPMI was in talks with some foreign and indigenous institutions of higher learning, for a possible integration of its curriculum into their programmes, and this is already yielding positive responses. “Some are willing to give discounted tuition to registered members of this institute for their MBAs and other programmes. We also have some of them willing to admit our members into a two-three month programme to validate their knowledge via coursework and real life projects. This is aimed at giving our members global placement in the practice of BPM,” he said. The institution, he hopes will promote the acceptance of BPM for infusion into management structures of all businesses in Nigeria- small, medium or large scale. According to him, “people should be willing to see Business Process Management as a required system within their structure for running a successful business.” In the long term, Adebayo believes that BPM will be a stable and formidable institute, continually aiding growth of the country, through provision of strong business process management systems that would lead to sustainable growth and development in Nigeria and nations around. He, however, seeks the collaborative handshake of organisations such as SON, ISO, NAFDAC, CBN, and so on, to achieve the desired purpose of the institution. In his keynote address, Dr. Nelson Uwaga, said BPM addresses the continuous evaluation of existing processes and identifies areas to improve upon. “Over the years, BPM has metamorphosed from being just an approach, to a full-fledged professional discipline of continuously making execution of business processes better,” he added. According to him, Nigerian businesses face a lot of challenges including, lack of infrastructure, corruption, carefree attitude of employees, among others. He said, “BPM would help to grow the Nigerian economy by streamlining workflow to become more effective and efficient thereby cutting down on cost, time, errors and workload.” Uwaga stated that the mapping of a typical BPM flows through a five-step process namely: designing, modelling, executing, monitoring, and optimising. While quoting a report from www.marketreportshub.com, he said, “the BPM market will grow from $4.71 billion in 2014 to $10.73 billion by 2019, with a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 17.9 per cent. He stressed that in the future, “BPM professionals will be highly sought after in manufacturing, financial services, consulting services, telecommunications, healthcare, and a host of industries where consumer expectations must be matched with innovative packaging and delivery of products and services.” The event also featured investiture of the president, as well as the induction of fellows, members, ambassadors and students of the institution. The president, Dr. Yahaya Fufore, said he was humbled to accept the call, and urged support from all quarters to make the institution successful. The inductees among others include, Mr Tony Agenmonmen, Mr. Ottah Kalu, Mr. Adetokunbo Modupe, Mr. Lampe Omoyele, Mrs. Omotola Fawunmi, Mrs. Tosin Doherty, Mr. Titus Oshikoya, Mrs. Lolade Adebayo, Mr. Adewale Onifade, Mrs. Adeola Oluwaseyi Imoudu and Mr. Taofik Sanni. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .