Minister of Finance, Mrs Kemi Adeosun. PHOTO: CNBC Africa The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has charged President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately sack, arrest and arraign his Minister of Finance, Mrs. Kemi Adeosun, for alleged criminal forgery of her National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) certificate. PDP also said the “world can now see how the Buhari Presidency has been concealing sharp practices under it. We can now see why there is humongous corruption under President Buhari’s watch and why Mr. President has refused to take any concrete steps to check the sleaze in his administration.” In a statement by its national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, yesterday, PDP urged President Buhari not to provide a cover for Adeosun in the character of his Presidency whenever close allies or agents are found wanting on issues of corruption. “The revelation vindicates our stand that the Buhari Presidency is a haven of fraudsters, common thieves and persons of questionable character,” the party said, adding that the recent revelation has cast a full-length dark shadow on the overall integrity of Buhari’s administration. “Perhaps such ‘artful dodgers’ were deliberately hired and placed in revenue related agencies to perfect the pilfering of our common patrimony for interests in the Buhari Presidency,” the party added, even as it challenged President Buhari to prove himself a man of integrity by allowing an open system-wide and independent inquest into all alleged corrupt practices in his presidency. PDP said: “We challenge President Buhari to be bold to allow an open independent inquest into the exact figures amounting to the trillions of naira oil revenue earned by the nation in the last three years and how he had spent same with Mrs. Adeosun as Minister of Finance. “Mr. President should also allow an open inquest into his handling, with Mrs Adeosun, of all our depleted foreign financial instruments, including the Excess Crude Account (ECA), from which funds were taken without recourse to the National Assembly” PDP also urged President Buhari to allow an inquest into his administration’s borrowing of over N10tr in 30 months, with Mrs. Adeosun as Minister of Finance and the purposes for which the money was used. “Furthermore, we challenge President Buhari to allow an inquest into the leaked memo at the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), showing N9tr corrupt oil contracts, as well as, the alleged stealing of N1.1tr worth of crude oil, all in a sector under his direct purview as minister of Petroleum. “We also demand for an open investigation into the N18b Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) intervention fund and the N10b National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS), alleged to have been stolen from the Treasury Single Account (TSA) by APC officials and Presidency cabal. “Finally, the PDP urges Nigerians to note the colossal corruption under President Buhari’s watch and hold him directly responsible for all the calamities that have befallen our nation in the last three years,” the party surmised.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .