 Uche Secondus<br />Photo: Twitter/UcheSecondus  The Chairman of the group and former Governor of the state, Ambassador Fidelis Tapgun, made the call after their meeting in Jos. He said this was necessary, especially now that the APC’s dam is fast collapsing. He said: “We note with keen interest the emergence of the reformed All Progressive Congress (rAPC), a splinter group of the ruling APC, with notable figures in government as actors. “While we watch the unfolding drama and the ‘collapse of the dam,’ we call on all those who left our great party, the PDP to return home, as the umbrella has been rebranded to not only accommodate all, but also achieve greater democratic gains.” The group also lamented “the incessant butchering of human lives and attendant destruction of homes and properties of ordinary citizens of Nigeria. “These range from Plateau, Kaduna, Benue, Nassarawa, Taraba, Adamawa, Zamfara, which had been on for too long. This is as there is no concrete plan, or clear roadmap to suggest that the Federal Government is serious beyond assurances and promises. According to him, the people need more than assurances and promises from the President Muhammadu Buhari to track down these criminals. Tapgun stressed that much as these assurances are needed, they have become irrelevant in the face of the continued attacks that have claimed countless lives. He lamented that communities could be attacked and hundreds of people slaughtered for over 48 hours without any immediate provision of rescue efforts. He expressed concern that the situation obviously points to the fact that the nation’s security system had been compromised. The chairman added that government lacks the will and capacity to resolve these challenges and restore peace and security. “Yet, as clearly provided for in our Constitution, the security and welfare of the people is the primary purpose of government. We also find the mockery of the sanctity of human life totally unacceptable and stands vehemently condemned,” he said. The group joined similar voices across the country to urge Buhari to use his moral and “constitutional responsibility as President, Commander-in-Chief to protect our people and the land from these ruthless and inhuman attacks.” The group demanded that perpetrators and sponsors of these heinous crimes against humanity be arrested and brought to justice. “This is the only full proof guarantee of the people’s safety, and the only way to rebuild confidence in their leader, as one capable of defending them at all times,” he added. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .