 Chief Emeka Anyaoku (left); wife of Ogun State governor, Olufunso Amosun; Governor Ibikunle Amosun; former Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Femi Pedro; Governor Akinwunmi Ambode; Diocesan Bishop of Lagos and Dean Emeritus, Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion), The Most Reverend (Dr) Ephraim Adebola Ademowo and his wife, Oluranti during the 70th Birthday Thanksgiving Service of Rev. Ademowo at the Cathedral Church of Christ, Marina, Lagos …yesterday.  Speaking at a special thanksgiving service to mark Ademowo’s 70th birthday and retirement held at the Cathedral Church of Christ, Marina in Lagos, Ambode commended the clergyman for serving the state meritoriously, saying it was not in doubt that he made significant impact to the development of Lagos and the nation in general. According to the governor, “Bishop Ademowo has been like a father to all of us, and I just want to first of all say a big thank you to him on behalf of all Lagosians and for attaining the age of 70, we are very glad to have witnessed this celebration and I also wish him well and his family.” The governor recalled how his mother worshiped in the church for 50 years, saying it was on record that Ademowo performed his role as spiritual leader brilliantly and excellently well. In his sermon, Primate of Church of Nigeria (Anglican Communion), Most Rev Nicholas Okoh, thanked God for His grace and loving-kindness which saw Bishop Ademowo through his service to the church and mankind, saying it was evident from all fronts that the clergyman had enjoyed the blessings of God. Taking his text from Psalms 103, Okoh said the thanksgiving service was most deserving considering the landmark achievements of Ademowo in his 46 years of service to the church, 29 of which was in the episcopacy (being Bishop), saying he would be greatly missed. While declaring that the church was against all forms of homosexuality, Okoh also urged people to prepare for eternity, saying it was important for everyone to know that their actions in life have eternal consequences whether good or bad. Aside Ambode and Obaseki, other dignitaries who graced the service include Ogun State Governor, Ibikunle Amosun; former Lagos State Deputy Governors, Femi Pedro and Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire; former Commonwealth Secretary-General, Chief Emeka Anyaoku; former Deputy National Chairman (South) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Bode George; former Minister of Petroleum Resources, Odein Ajumogobia; foremost banker, Otunba Subomi Balogun, among others. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .