 Kaduna State governor Nasir El-Rufai PHOTO: TWITTER/GOVERNOR KADUNA  He said he had suffered humiliation and persecution in the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led government because of his commitment to restore good governance when he returns to office next year. The former governor submitted his letter of intent to contest the governorship position in 2019 to the party, calling for support to vote out El-Rufai and end the era of dictatorship and tyranny in the state. Addressing PDP stakeholders at the party secretariat at Kawo, Yero said: “I have had the opportunity to serve the state in various capacities as Commissioner of Finance, Deputy Governor and Governor. At the political front, my unflinching support and loyalty to the PDP is incontestable.” In a related development, a former Deputy Governor of Ogun State, Adegbenga Kaka, yesterday joined the 2019 race to the State House on the APC platform. Kaka was Deputy to former governor Olusegun Osoba who ruled the state between 1999 and 2003. The leadership of the party, in collaboration with Governor Ibikunle Amosun, has allegedly zoned the governorship position to Ogun West senatorial district. But addressing the media in Abeokuta yesterday, Kaka, who was senator between 2011 and 2015, said the zoning arrangement was unacceptable. Also, immediate past Speaker of the Abia State House of Assembly, Martins Azubuike, has declared his readiness to challenge Governor Okezie Ikpeazu in next year’s governorship poll on the APC platform. Azubuike, who was elected for a third term in 2015 on PDP platform and later became Speaker, was removed from office in December last year and thereafter defected to the APC. Announcing his declaration at the Umuahia Office of the APC, he said his mission was to transform the state economy, stressing that the state has been “faced with the tragic consequences of poverty and underdevelopment across all sectors and localities.” Meanwhile, a House of Representatives aspirant in next year’s general election, David Adetunji Adeyeye, has joined other Nigerians in calling for the country’s restructuring. Declaring his intention to represent the Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC)/Bwari federal constituency on the platform of Young Progressives Party (YPP), he maintained that the country could not achieve greatness as presently constituted. He enjoined the older generation of politicians to give room for the younger ones who, he said, were better equipped to lead the country effectively. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .