 Senator Shehu Sani  Sani hinted that he would announce his defection from the APC before the end of the week.On the new elected National Chairman of the party, he said: “I believe in Adams Oshiomhole, I believe in his track record and I believe he is somebody who has the desire to put things right in the party. “He is a capable hand, a revolutionary and a true comrade but Chief John Odigie-Oyegun left behind unexploded bombs in the party, which certainly may be beyond Oshiomhole’s capacity to address.” He added that El-Rufai does not have respect for the leadership of APC and the presidency.On the challenges facing the new chairman, Sani said: “I believe there are some of these problems he can solve and there are those he can not. Those he cannot solve are the ones that were laid.“I wish Adams had come earlier because like I said, these grenades that were laid by the former chairman will explode in a matter of days.” Meanwhile, former Minister of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Relations, Tanimu Turaki (SAN) has promised to review the constitutional hindrances to the restructuring of the country if elected president in 2019. Speaking during a meeting with members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) at its headquarters in Lagos yesterday, the presidential hopeful said he would make restructuring his first priority. “If elected, I will set up a committee that would look into the recommendations of the 2014 National Conference, which the APC and President Muhammadu Buhari, despite their promises to restructure the country during the 2015 campaign, have thrown away,” he said. Turaki, the second presidential aspirant from the North to assure Nigerians of restructuring in 2019 added: “I believe in restructuring whether from the perspective of true federalism, devolution of power, creation of more states in the Southeast region, creation of more local governments and granting of special status to Lagos State would be made a priority.” He argued that Buhari-led administration had left Nigerians more divided than united, stressing that a situation where criminals were being treated on the basis of ethnic and religious sentiments by the government, was making the country to drift apart. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .