 Eugene Kongnyuy  UNFPA Acting Representative in the country, Dr. Eugene Kongnyuy disclosed this yesterday in a statement in Maiduguri.He said the Korean government (KOICA International) had already donated $5million (N1.8 billion) to that effect. The donation was to complete the three-year fistula repair project on Reproductive and Maternal Health (RMH) in the state.Kongnyuy explained that the project on MRH services was to support humanitarian activities in Borno State for three years.He said: “KOICA International has also provided hospital equipment, which the head of delegation would hand over to the state government at the state Specialist Hospital in Maiduguri. “This fistula repairs project would put smiles on the faces of women and girls. The remodeled and equipped VVF repair centre, would give back dignity to women in the state.”On a 12-day campaign against fistula, he said: “UNFPA’s commencement of fistula campaigns in Borno State was made possible by the Canadian government. It renovated and refurbished, and also equipped the obstetric fistula operation complex in Maiduguri. “We leveraged on the availability of this new theatre to bring experts and surgeons from France and Nigerian. They would perform surgeries on a targeted 150 women and girls during the period.”He added that the campaign commenced on July 23, 2018 across the state. The UNFPA media and communication specialist, Kori Habib, further disclosed that 130 women and girls had already been screened for surgery at the state specialists hospital. According to her, 11 complex cases have been identified and repaired. Also, a lot more repairs are ongoing at the Vesico-Vaginal Fistula (VVF) centre. “The first phase of the Obstetric Fistula campaign in Borno will end on Wednesday, she added.A refresher seminar for health workers on recent advances on obstetric fistula repairs will also hold on Thursday in Abuja.She said the state government, expressed appreciation to the United Nation’s agency’s support for women and girls, who are in dire need of sexual and reproductive healthcare services. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .