Not everyone likes the spotlight or paparazzi, as 20-year-old Kylie Jenner reveals. Just named by Forbes magazine as the youngest person on the fourth annual ranking of America’s Richest Self-Made Women,here are 10 surprising facts about the billionaire you didn’t know. Kylie Jenner Photo Forbes Jamel Toppin According to People,the young billionaire who didn’t choose the life of fame stated that fame stressed her out and she just wants to “run away”. She often avoids the public eye and is very outspoken about not wanting to be famous as she admitted to her sisters Kim and Kourtney that she really feels deep down inside that “she isn’t supposed to be famous”. Since people practically watched her grow up on their TV screens, this comes as a surprise to them.
In a episode of Life of Kylie in 2017, she said;Kylie said during a 2017 episode of Life of Kylie, according to People:
“I started filming Keeping Up With The Kardashians when I was 9 years old. I don’t know what it’s like to not have everyone know who I am. I don’t know what it’s like to live a normal life, where people don’t know who you are, to get out of a car and not have everyone stare at you. I feel like when you grow up on camera, people think they know you because you’re on social media so much and on reality TV” You would think that having grown up right in front of the public eye, Kylie would have no problem addressing a number of people.
According to BuzzFeed, she once revealed in a YouTube video on how she was so nervous during a high school presentation and said “My favorite food is soccer and basketball” Kylie reads all of her Instagram comments and has said: “If she sees too many negative ones, she deletes the photo and reposts it”. In a Teen Vogue interview, Kylie said “Having sisters is the best. I have a different relationship with each of them. I go to Kim for fashion advice, Khloé is always boy and family advice, and Kourtney is like another mother to me. It’s so fun being an aunt. When I look far into the future and decide to have kids, I need to have a million girls”
She also told the magazine that having so many powerful women around her is a blessing. Unlike most of her peers, Kylie was homeschooled during her last few years of high school and would constantly learn for about three or four hours a day. Read More: Kylie Jenner Is Self-Made? People Slam Forbes Born in August of 1997, Kylie named Kristen after her mother Kristen (aka Kris) Mary Jenner. Her other siblings were also named after different people as Kourtney bears the middle name Mary after her mom as well and big bro Rob was named after his famous attorney dad, Robert Kardashian. Kendall also named after Nicole Brown Simpson, is officially Kendall Nicole Jenner. Most people only know a few of her siblings but there are a few we often tend to forget. Born in 1978, Burt Jenner is the oldest of Kylie’s siblings, Kourtney was born in the next year and so began the other side of the family tree where only 4 of them share the Jenner last name. In 1980, her older sister Casey was born and so also was Kim Kardashian, Bruce remarried in 1981 and had Brandon Jenner. Brody was born in 1983 followed by Khloe in 1984. After a long break, Rob was born in 1987 and that ended the Kardashian birth. Kendall and Kylie were then born in 1995. According to HuffPost, Kylie earned $100,000 just for letting OPI name a nail polish line after her and Kendall where they had to “attend a one-day photo shoot and a one-day media tour, as well as tweet and blog about the polishes on their own time.” She got a scar on her leg while playing as a child. “When I was about five, my sister and I were playing hide-and-seek, and I hid inside this really tall-enclosed gate. After a while when my sister didn’t find me I had to climb up on this sharp pole sticking out from the gate. I slipped and the pole went into my leg. I tried pulling away to get the pole out but it just tore through my whole leg,” she said in a fan Q&A. In spring break of 2010, Kylie was chased by a fan through a hotel in Miami where she had to lock herself in one of the backrooms of the hotel and wait for a security guard to rescue her.