 Cookies Sisi Yemmie  These recipes are perfect not just for children, but also for everyone. They are really easy to prepare and finish so fast you would be surprised. PIZZA TOAST If your kids love Pizza then this is one recipe they will definitely love and they can have it made either as breakfast or as a snack. It will also be fun and engaging to have them make this with you.
 
INGREDIENTS 4 Slices of Bread (depending on how many you need) 4 Table Spoons Pizza sauce (Store bought) 1 Cup Mozzarella Cheese (Shredded) Pepperonis (As much as you can place on a bread)  Spray a baking pan with non-stick cooking spray, place the bread slices on it and place in an already preheated oven (400 degrees F). Allow the bread slices to bake for 6 minutes or till they begin to toast. Transfer bread to a surface and allow cool. Using a spoon, apply a tablespoon of Pizza Sauce on each bread and spread. Sprinkle Mozzarella cheese on the bread and top it up with as much pepperonis as you can place on a slice of bread. Place back in the oven and make for another 10 minutes.
Your Pizza bread is ready!
 
TENDER CHICKEN FINGERS
 
INGREDIENTS 3 Chicken Breast (Skinless and Boneless)  1 and 1/2 Cup Full cream Milk 2 Eggs 1 Tablespoon Ground Pepper 1 Tablespoon Salt 1 Tablespoon Onion Powder 1 Tablespoon Garlic Powder 1 Seasoning Cube  1 Cup Plain Flour 1/2 Cup Corn Flour 1 Teaspoon Baking Powder 1 Tablespoon Ground Pepper  Use a sharp knife to cut chicken breast into strips and set aside. In a bowl, add some milk, eggs then whisk together. Add Onion Powder, Garlic Powder and Ground Powder, Salt and seasoning. Whisk some more. Pour marinade over chicken; mix together, cover the bowl and place in a fridge for at least 2 hours. Set up a coating station: In a bowl, add all purpose flour to one, baking powder, ground pepper, salt and stir together Using a tong, dip each chicken piece in all-purpose flour; shake it to get rid of excess flour and set it on a tray to rest till all the chicken is coated. Add some vegetable oil in a cooking pan and allow to heat up. If the oil is too hot, the chicken will brown faster and will be burnt without getting cooked. If the oil is not hot enough, the chicken nuggets would soak up oil and become soggy-no crunch. The Chicken strips would only take about 4 to 6 minutes to cook, so make sure you keep an eye on it and flip it often. When it is golden brown, set it on a paper towel so that it can soak up excess oil.  Serve these oatmeal cookies with some hot chocolate and it is filling enough for breakfast for kids.
 
INGREDIENTS 3/4 Cups Wheat Flour 3/4 Cups Plain Flour/All Purpose Flour and 1/4 Cup White Sugar 1 Cup Brown Sugar 1/2 Cup Butter and 1/2 Cup Shortening or 1 Cup Butter 3 Cups Oats 2 Eggs Handful Raisins Handful Coconut Shavings 1 Teaspoon Cinnamon 1 Teaspoon Vanilla Essence 1 Teaspoon Baking Soda 1/2 Teaspoon Salt  Pre-heat Oven to 350 degrees In a large bowl, with a whisk (or by hand) beat butter and shortening (or just butter if you are using only butter) for 40 seconds. Add Sugar, Baking Soda, Salt and Cinnamon to the Butter mix and beat until properly combined. Add Eggs and Vanilla Essence and beat some more Add Wheat Flour, All Purpose Flour and Oats gradually, and mix with a spatula till well combined. Add Raisins and Coconut Shavings and mix some more. Using a small ice cream scoop or a tablespoons, scoop a small amount of dough and place on a baking tray. Bake for 10 to 15 minutes. Take out of the oven, place on a cooling rack and allow to cool before eating. 