 Osun state  According to a statement by the Public Relations Officer of the command, Mrs. Folashade Odoro, the incident was reported to the police by one Segun Atanda at about 2:30p.m. on Monday. Odoro said the suspect hacked his mother to death and that at about 3:30p.m., police detectives were deployed to the scene of the incident and arrested the suspect at the scene while they took the body of the deceased mother to the hospital. Meanwhile, a security guard, Yushau Bala, 20, who doubles as a primary school pupil in one of the public primary schools in Minna, Niger State and one other person, Sale Bala, have been arrested by the police for alleged kidnapping of his employer’s son. Bala worked as a security guard in the residence of one Mohammed Hadi. According to the police, the suspects kidnapped the son of his employer, 10-year-old Afdal Mohammed Hadi, and took him to an unknown place where he later demanded a ransom of N150,000. After kidnapping the boy, the duo made phone call to his parents that his son was in their custody saying they should make available N150,000 to secure the boy’s release. The police moved into the case and using the phone number provided by the kidnappers asked them to come for the ransom at the location they (suspects) had earlier provided. It was there that the suspects were apprehended leading to the release of the boy. Answering questions from newsmen, Bala said he kidnapped their victim to serve as punishment for the parents who had accused him of theft in their house. According to him, all his life no one had leveled such accusation against him, “that is why I decided to punish them by kidnapping their son.” Bala said he recruited Sale for the job adding that it was Sale that made the call to the victim’s parents. Sale, however, said though he made the phone call after asking Bala what he was doing with his employer’s son, he did not know that he kidnapped the little boy. Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Muhammad Abubakar, who paraded the suspects before newsmen, said they would be charged to court after investigation into the crime had been completed. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .