 Former Minister of Finance, Adamu Ciroma  Mallam Haruna a powerful writer, is now a National Commissioner at INEC whose weekly column is on recess now because of his present assignment at INEC. Although it was a brief introduction on that day but it was the beginning of my friendship with Ciroma. I was told later that he was one of the contributors of the weekly column in the New Nigerian newspaper titled CANDIDO – The man behind the mask. Other contributors to that column I am told were Alhaji Turi Mohammed who represented Gbako constituency of Niger State in the constituent Assembly of 1977 and Mallam Mamman Daura, who was a member of the sub-committee of public services including the Armed Forces and the police in the constitutional Drafting Committee of 1976. In the senatorial race in Niger State 35 years ago in 1983, Alhaji Turi Mohammed, who was from Bida lost to Professor Jerry Gana. Alhaji Mamman Daura who is an uncle of President Muhammadu Buhari, served in the subcommittee on public service including the Armed Forces and the Police along with Dr. Obi Wali (chairman), Alhaji Ahmed Talib, Colonel M. Pedro Martins, Chief Ekanem Ita, Mr. Mamman Ali Makele and Dr. Tajudeen Olawale Idris. The three of them worked in the New Nigerian and the column was too powerful to be ignored during the tenure of General Yakubu Gowon. Another journalist who worked in the New Nigeria newspaper then and who represented Katsina-Ala constituency of Benue State in the constituent assembly was Mr. N. Mvendaga Jibo who was also my friend I later covered Mallam Adamu Ciroma when he served as the Secretary of the NPN between 1978-1979 and when he became minster under President Shehu Shagari between 1979 and 1983. In 1999 when he became a minister, I used to see him during the Federal executive council meetings at the villa when I served in the office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation. He had a special way of calling my name. I missed him when he had a car crash in early 2000 on his way to Kano and was flown out for medical attention. On his arrival in the country in 2001, he personally phoned me. And since then till late last year, we were always in touch. Mallam Adamu Ciroma was a great man and to me he was a true friend. He had no pretence on anything. He was frank and down to earth. I will always remember him. On November 3 1977, he made a contribution at the Constituent Assembly. I hereby present the speech in full. “My name is Adamu Ciroma and I represent Fika-Fune in Borno State. Well, I am contributing. I would like, as most speakers have done, to pay compliments to the CDC and its chairman for a job well done. It is becoming rather monotonous but I think that we can bear with this monotony in view of the excellent job which they have done. Our job here I believe is to try to make a good job even better. Before I go into the points which I wish to raise, I would like to make some preliminary observations. This country, I think one would say, has definitely established itself as a united country in terms of physical unification, the definition of its boundaries, et cetera. This has clearly been confirmed by the events which have brought us here today. What has been going on before the definite unification, is a long- term and sometimes imperceptible process and that is the process of integration. I think we should regard our exercise here in terms of facilitating and encouraging this process of national integration. To do this is to attempt to achieve peace, stability and progress. I think that everyone agrees that a Constitution is a code of rules of do’s and don’ts that create the atmosphere for facilitating the achievement of peace, stability and progress. One other point I would like to make is that we should regard ourselves as being in a school and that this Assembly is part of our own arena for acquiring education. I think that if we are able to listen to what we are saying to each other, we should be able to arrive at a consensus. I think that consensus is so important. One can deal with issues in terms of votes and majorities but if you are dealing with people in a plural society, it is much better to deal with issues on the basis of consensus. Most Members have already taken oath to do their best and endeavour to produce a Constitution for this country. I would like to say quite categorically that God may never allow me to be involved in an exercise which deprives even one person in this country his legitimate rights. Members should be very careful that whatever they do, they should seek the interest of the minutest number of people, and should be done in conformity with the acceptable tenets refer to furthering political processes. Some of the problems of this country are based on several pluralities-religions, ethnic and territorial ambition. I have noticed all the time the desire of many people to wash away these pluralities. These are Nigerian pluralities and in fact these are the causes of stress in this nation. I would like us to adopt a more positive attitude towards these pluralities and use all those parts of them that contribute to strengthening this nation instead of wailing and writhing about the fact of ethnic and religious pluralities. We can contain all these provided we work on the basis of consensus and on the basis of protective interests and rights. Now, Chairman, may I now touch on the question of Fundamental Objectives and Directive Principles. It seems that the only issue in this regard is whether these are justiciable or not justiciable. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .