 Education Minister, Malam Adamu Adamu  Njoku who lamented the deplorable state of education, citing the poor performances of students in external examinations like the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE), National Examination Council (NECO) as well as the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) said government must give priority attention to qualitative education. “Qualitative education, a priority that has no rival in terms of human and capital development may have become expensive owing to so many lapses and unforeseen circumstances within the sector, this and many more has given rise to the establishment of many private schools by some individuals, corporate bodies, religious organisations and agencies where most goal driven parents have decided to partner with for the academic growth of their children. He expressed concern over increasing cases of juvenile delinquency, cultism, inadequate parental care and negative peer group influence, which he said, has brought decay without any proven solution to the sector over the years. To address the decadence, Njoku said AMIA was established in line with present day teaching and learning. He said, “Inspired by passion for children academic well being, happiness and a fruitful future of today’s child amidst several problems associated with children upbringing, there is a school in the roll call of international schools in Rivers State where teaching and learning in line with the 21st century British and Nigerian curricular is adopted.” Njoku added that the school is fully equipped with science and vocational laboratories to meet global needs of the educationally disadvantaged. On her part, the head teacher of the primary section, Mrs. Adanna Ikechukwu said, “AMIA as an academy motivates children to study using the best method known as participatory observation. The proper teaching and learning which is our deliberate culture, is pleasurably increasing the better chances of our children whose dreams are to better the lives of tomorrow through learning.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .