National Chairman of Social Democratic Party (SDP) and Former Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Chief Oluyemisi Samuel Falae The Social Democratic Party, SDP, yesterday, agreed with stalwarts of the Committee of Concerned Political Parties (CCPP), to form stronger alliance to wrest power from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) come 2019. The party also said it plans to set up a committee to provide an effective and workable blueprint on ways to resolve the teething socio-economic, political and security challenges bedeviling the country. SDP national chairman, chief Olu Falae, made this disclosure alongside chairmen of CCPP, while briefing newsmen at the national secretariat of the party at 9, Yedseram Street, Maitama, Abuja. He expressed worry over the growing insecurity, unemployment and continued mis-governance of the APC-led federal government, stressing that to continue to be silent was no longer golden, but that a workable solution must be found for Nigeria to remain one indivisible nation. He added: “We and 36 other political parties under the aegis of Committee of Concerned Political Party, CCPP, have come to work together to find a way out this bourgeoning rate if unemployment and insecurity. We are very concerned about the situation in Nigeria over the socio-political, economic and security challenges bedevilling the country. “We have agreed to identity effective solution and find a common blueprint for the survival of our nation. This is in continuation of our dialogues and consultation. We want to have a blueprint based on identified and workable solution to our national problems.” On whether SDP would form a coalition with the other 36 political parties ahead of the 2019 general elections, Falae said, “We are still working out the blueprint. When the time is due, you shall be informed. As party leaders, we are concerned about the security of this nation. And about the unity of the nation. Also, we are touched about the prosperity of this nation. We must make sure that Nigeria remains one. We we are dedicated to the course of national unity and prosperity of the country.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .