A popular prophet, who allegedly specialises in duping unsuspecting members of the society and founder of Christ Apostolic Church (CAC) Freedom City, Abiodun James Adeniyi, has been apprehended by the Ondo State command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). While parading the spiritual leader before newsmen in Akure yesterday, the state NSCDC Commandant, Mr. Pedro Awili, disclosed that the suspect deceived his victims by promising them immigration jobs and travelling overseas. Awili said he had obtained N1.7 million from one Mrs. Folasade Olukinni under the pretence of helping her son to secure visa to the United States of America since February 2018 through one of his syndicates. The Guardian learnt that the prophet had been in the business about a year ago since the establishment of his church at No 7 Gbogi Street, Akure, the capital city of the state, where he used to deceive the people. Awili narrated that “earlier this year, he brought a man to the church named Olamilekan Omole and introduced him to the congregation as his Personal Assistant. “Later, he introduced the same man as traveling agent that whoever wanted to travel abroad should contact him. “One woman, Folasade Olukinni now went to the prophet that one of her children wanted to travel abroad and that she needed his prayer, the suspect later told the woman that he has one genuine traveling agent he wanted to introduce to her. “The suspect now introduced his PA to the woman that he is not a fake traveling agent. The traveling process started in which the woman paid N1.7 million to his account and since then his PA has ran away.” The NSCDC Commandant added that another woman claimed that one Ademola Kolawole got N4.2 million from her in other to liberate her son from evil spiritual that had been tormenting her son early this year. He stated that luck ran against Adeniyi when complaints were lodged from various youths claiming that the prophet promised to secure immigration jobs for them for various charges ranging from between N4 million to N5 million. The NSCDC boss noted that the suspects, Kolawole and Abiodun, claimed innocent of those allegations levelled against them though Abiodun confessed to receiving just N250,000 from an individual whose name he refused to mention. Awili, however, pledged to rid the state of criminals following the directive of the Commandant-General who ordered zero tolerance in all the states of the Federation, assuring that the suspects would soon be charge to court and prosecuted accordingly. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .