Abubakar Kawu Baraje Shema urges unity in opposition to wrest power from ruling party 
Chieftains of the new Peoples Democratic Party (nPDP) bloc in the All Progressives Congress (APC) have said that they will make their positions regarding their relationship with the ruling party known this week. The leader of the group, Alhaji Abubakar Kawu Baraje, disclosed this yesterday in a statement from his media office in Ilorin, Kwara State. Baraje said before the end of this week, members of the group would have concluded their consultations and come out with what they stand for. He stressed that corporate interest of the citizenry and a united Nigeria where no man is oppressed are paramount and very dear to their hearts. Meanwhile, former Katsina State Governor, Ibrahim Shehu Shema, has urged unity within the PDP to wrestle power from the ruling APC next year. Shema also called on those aspiring for elective positions at national and state levels to co-operate and co-ordinate themselves to ensure a successful outing in 2019 polls. The former governor, who stated this yesterday during a PDP summit organised by the coalition of PDP groups for aspirants and party faithful in the state, represented by the PDP North-West Zonal Treasurer, Bashir Gambo, said to ensure a good outing, favouritism or preferential treatment should not be given any candidate. “In the past, PDP was accused of imposition of candidates. We have, however, learnt from our lessons as a party. “Party leaders and political leaders should adopt that what the delegates decide is their own choice,” he said. Shema, who is facing charges in a federal and state courts for alleged misappropriation of monies running into billions of naira, however denied reports of leaving an empty treasury shortly before leaving office. He challenged the APC-led government in the state to prove the validity of the allegation and publish the bank’s statements as of May 29, 2015. “We left N14 billion in the coffers of the government. We challenged the state government of Aminu Bello Masari to publish the account. He is yet to publish it. “The government used the money left by the previous administration to give out fictitious contracts to their own people to help them, which left the treasury empty,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .