 MD Danvic Petroleum, Afe Mayowa  Besides, the company has produced the second set of graduates from the Danvic Petroleum Training Centre after six months of practical geosciences training. The Managing Director of the company, Dr. Mayowa Afe, made this disclosure at the 2nd graduation ceremony of Danvic Petroleum Centre in Lagos on Tuesday. According to him, the petroleum university is expected to bridge the gap between the Nigerian university theory and the practical knowledge needed in the oil and gas industry. He disclosed that the university would also contribute to the course of local content development in Africa by grooming students to become employable in the oil and gas sector, particularly in the geosciences and petroleum engineering. Afe said that geoscience graduates from Nigerian universities are lacking in the necessary skills and exposure that oculd guarantee their employability in a multi-task world-class geoscience environment. He said that this unfortunate scenario over the years before the advent of the Nigeria Government local content policy has led to many international oil and gas companies who are in the country for business to source for personnel abroad. Afe who is also the President, Oil and Gas Trainers Association (OGTAN), said that some Nigerian students studying abroad were proffered to detriment of their colleagues studying in Nigerian universities. This, he said, led to the establishment of Danvic Petroleum Training Centre, which would soon attain the status of a university with the aim of boosting the Nigerian government local content policy and interventions in the oil and gas industry. Speaking on the training programme, Afe explained: “The Danvic Petroleum School is a six months intensive programme designed for graduates and young professionls of geoscience to take courses on all aspect of oil and gas ranging from exploration to production stages. The six months courses are divided into four modules. Module one and two comprises general lectures and theory while module three involves practical sessions taught by practicing geoscientists and engineers from eh oil and gas industry. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .