Simi Phyno, Kizz Daniel, Pasuma, Others On Parade
All is now set for the 2018 edition of City Of Friends, a two-day event that will hit the cities of Lagos and Calabar. The announcement of the performing artistes was made recently at the official media unveil of the event, which is sponsored by 33 Export Lager, from the stables of Nigerian Breweries Plc. Phyno, who’s fresh off his new endorsement with another Nigerian breweries brand – Life beer, will be looking to thrill audience with his signature Igbo verses and charisma. Also, everyone’s favourite, Simi will be bringing all of her charm and her beautiful voice to the party as she graces the stage alongside the likes of Kiss Daniel, and Fuji Maestro Wasiu Alabi Pasuma. Addressing journalists on the plans in place for the event, the Marketing Director of Nigerian Breweries, makers of “33” Export and other premium beer brands, Mr. Franco Maria Maggi, said the brand is dedicated to building friendship moments. “We believe that Friendship should be celebrated every day. Hence, all our brand activities are geared towards celebrating friendship. To this end, the “33” Export brand, and more broadly Nigerian Breweries Plc. is poised to continually participate in activities that will unite us along these lines.” It will be recalled that the brand celebrated World Friendship Day for the first time in Nigeria in 2016. Last year was no different, as the event was celebrated in a grand style. “Our plan is to surpass our own best efforts in 2018! Come July 30, 2018, we will join the world again to celebrate friendship in a grand style. I say grand because this time we are taking the celebration to the grassroots,” he said. This year’s edition of City of Friends will, among other notable events, see the brand extend its value proposition and introduce a writing competition tagged Pen Down For Friendship which will reward winners with training grants to study at a media and communications school in Nigeria. The fun train hits Calabar on July 28 and 29, before taking the party to Lagos from August 3 to 4, with the performing artistes on parade. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .