Range Rover Velar 2019 Range Rover Sport has always combined the refinement and capability of a large Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV) with the performance of a sport car. With this latest update, designed to enhance the driving experience and customer convenience, the Range Rover Sport continues to be the benchmark luxurious performance SUV. Customers will have the two diesel and three petrol engines alongside the efficient new P400e plug-in hybrid electric vehicle (PHEV) powertrain with a 51km all-electric range. Premium Design
Range Rover Sport’s exterior design underlines its dynamic character with purposeful visual cues. The lights and slimline grille blend into a clean, single surface, while the front bumper design creates a planted, ground-hugging aesthetic that optimises airflow for enhanced cooling. Assertive fender vents catch the eye while the iconic floating roof helps to create a long and lean profile. At the rear, an aggressive slotted spoiler profile complements the vehicle’s clean, efficient design, while significantly reducing the accumulation of dirt on the rear windscreen. A suite of alloy wheel options underline the Range Rover Sport’s purposeful attitude and accentuate its athletic stance. The 21 and 22-inch designs are available with a silver, diamond-turned or black finish. Customers looking for an even more purposeful vehicle can opt for the Black Exterior Pack for HSE Dynamic models. This adds Gloss Black exterior accents, including the grille mesh and surround, to give the Range Rover Sport a stealth-like appearance. In addition, the Carbon Fibre Exterior Pack is available on the HSE Dynamic and the Autobiography Dynamic models and adds a high-performance edge with Gloss Black and Carbon Fibre additions to the main grille, fender vent and bonnet vent surrounds, as well as the door mirror covers and tailgate finisher. Customers can also choose a number of metallic paints finishes and Loire Blue is available from 2019 model year in place of Kaikoura Stone. Commenting on the latest update, Vehicle Line Director, Jaguar Land Rover, Nick Collins, said: “The latest enhancements to the Range Rover Sport build on its credentials as the luxury performance SUV. With a more efficient powertrain line-up, improved safety technology and state-of-the-art lighting features, this is a vehicle that demands to be driven.” Lighting the way
Range Rover Sport features LED headlight technology to provide superior illumination. More energy efficient and designed to last the lifetime of the vehicle, the light they produce is much closer to daylight and helps make night driving less tiring. All models feature signature daytime running lights, automatic headlights and power wash but the new technology delivers four headlight options: Premium; Matrix; Pixel; Pixel-Laser The standard Premium headlight package has 24 LEDs per vehicle, with Signature Running Lights and optional Auto High Beam Assist. The state-of-the-art Matrix LED light system with 52 LEDs offers the next level of functionality by splitting the beam into vertical strips that can be controlled individually and allow for use of the high and low beam at the same time. This is achieved by casting up to four vertical shadows in front of the vehicle to prevent it dazzling approaching road users without the need to dip the main beam. The advanced set-up can be optimised for town, country and motorway driving, as well as bad weather. Pixel LED lighting delivers complete control of 142 individual LEDs. It maximises the amount of light the Range Rover Sport projects onto the road by splitting the main beam pattern vertically and horizontally. This enables up to four higher definition shadows to avoid dazzling multiple vehicles ahead and incorporates Bending Lights, which operate at higher speeds to direct the main beam pattern according to the direction of steering. This lighting is complemented by the Pixel-Laser High Beam, which projects a precise and constant light more than 500 metres ahead thanks to 144 LEDs and four laser diodes. For night driving and at speeds of 80km/h or more, the powerful system provides exceptional forward visibility and advanced warning of potential obstacles. The intelligent system automatically dims when other vehicles are detected. Interior refinement
Luxurious Semi-Aniline Leather offers outstanding quality and a stain-resistant finish on Autobiography Dynamic trim and is optional on HSE and HSE Dynamic models with 20 or 22-way electronically-adjustable seats. Grained leather upholstery is available with a choice of eight-way or 14-way adjustable front seats. Perforated Windsor leather comes with the 16-way memory front seats with the option of winged headrests. Interior ambient lighting highlights key design cues throughout the cabin with as many as 10 different colour options available. The atmospheric set-up bathes the footwells, sections of the doors and other parts of the interior in light, creating an even more cosseting and relaxing cabin. Passengers also benefit from a series of flexible stowage solutions, typified by cup holders that can be removed to reveal a deep 3.2-litre storage area in the centre console with dedicated USB charging port. In addition, the 7.8-litre cubby box (up from 5.8 litres) features a double-level hinged tray when open, perfect for keeping wallets and mobile phones secure and out of sight. The lockable glove box provides enhanced security, while customers can specify an optional cooler compartment or refrigerator in the front centre console capable of holding four 500ml bottles and chilling to 5C. A cabin air ionisation system, Nanoe™, improves air quality inside and can help reduce allergens, viruses, bacteria and odours. The system uses nano-sized charged water particles that decompose harmful substances and help to cleanse the air. The powered roof sunblind can be opened and closed using an advanced gesture control system capable of sensing the movement of a hand. All it takes to open the sunblind is a rearward swipe in front of the rear-view mirror, while a simple forward motion will prompt the blind to close. Comfortable and convenient, the intuitive system also reduces potential distraction to the driver. In addition, the blind can be closed automatically when the vehicle is locked. This keeps the interior cool in warm weather and minimises the need for air conditioning when passengers return. When the driver opens the door, the sunblind will automatically slide open. The sunblind can still be operated with conventional buttons, if preferred. Sustainable Luxury
The Range Rover Sport is available with Jaguar Land Rover’s first Plug-In Hybrid Electric Vehicle (PHEV) powertrain. The P400e is capable of driving up to 51km with zero tailpipe emissions when driven in all-electric mode. The P400e is the most efficient Range Rover Sport and combines an advanced 221kW four-cylinder Ingenium petrol engine with an 85kW electric motor. This transformational technology is powered by an advanced 13.1kWh lithium-ion battery giving a total available power output of 297kW* from the permanent four-wheel drive system. * Peak Internal Combustion Engine and Electric power are not delivered at same engine speed Together they drive Land Rover’s performance SUV from 0-100km/h in just 6.7 seconds and to a top speed of 220km/h. With an impressive 640Nm of torque, the powertrain mixes dynamic and sustainable performance with traditional Range Rover capability, comfort and refinement. The P400e delivers CO2 emissions of 73g/km* and fuel economy of up to 3.2 l/100km. The intelligent system can also capture and store the energy generated when braking to help recharge the battery. * NEDC Equivalent; Manufacturers Estimates The combination of Ingenium petrol and electric power can be used in two driving modes: Parallel Hybrid mode (the default driving mode) and EV (Electric Vehicle) mode. In Parallel Hybrid mode the PHEV model can intelligently and seamlessly combine the two power sources to deliver efficient progress. By using its electrical energy reserves intelligently, the P400e always has the power and capability customers demand from a Range Rover Sport.
On longer journeys, customers can use the SAVE function to deploy the EV-only range for a specific part of their journey. For example, when entering congested urban areas. In EV mode the P400e can be driven up to 51km with zero-emissions when fully charged. This driving mode is manually selected using a button on the console and gives the new PHEV model a top speed of 137km/h while its generous range will allow drivers to complete most commutes without engaging the petrol engine. The access point for the 7kW on-board recharging socket is located behind the Land Rover badge on right of the grille, at the front of the vehicle, while the 13.1kWh prism-shaped lithium-ion battery is mounted at the rear beneath the boot floor. Charging made simple
A full charge can be achieved in approximately 7.5 hours* which makes the Range Rover Sport P400e ideal for overnight battery top-ups using a domestic plug socket. * Varies by market, location and the type of hardware used
The PHEV model is available with two types of cable and includes a home charging lead, which connects to domestic power supplies, as standard.
Faster charging performance can be achieved with a public charging cable, compatible with AC wall boxes installed at domestic and business premises and service stations. This can reduce the charge time to as little as 2 hours 45 minutes. Timed charging is also available via the Range Rover Sport’s state-of-the-art infotainment system, which allows owners to choose the most appropriate time to begin charging – perfect for customers who want to plug in when they return home but want to wait until a cheaper energy tariff is available. Owners can monitor the charging status via two illuminated strips that sit either side of the charging socket. A white light signifies the vehicle is connected and charging has not started, while a blue light shows that timed charging is set but not underway. A flashing green signal shows the car is charging, while a solid green light indicates the battery is full. Customers can use InControl app technology to monitor the charge status wherever they are, receiving alerts if there is an error, or the cable has been removed. First-class functionality
The petrol engine and electric motor of the P400e have been calibrated to work in perfect harmony, with two charge management functions available when in Parallel Hybrid mode: Predictive Energy Optimisation helps to make the most of both power sources and is activated when the driver enters a destination into the navigation system. By analysing the traffic, gradient of the route and whether it is an urban or rural environment, the PHEV system will seamlessly combine electric and Ingenium petrol engine power to optimise efficiency. This is not available when the vehicle is in Sport mode.
The driver-selectable SAVE mode is accessed through the Touchscreen and maintains battery charge at the point of activation. At this point, the vehicle will only use the electric motor once it has replenished enough energy via regenerative braking or charging, allowing customers to conserve electric power to be used on a specific part of their journey. The operation of the PHEV powertrain is supported by an advanced eight-speed automatic transmission, which combines lightweight construction and highly efficient operation to reduce fuel consumption and CO2 emissions while delivering the supreme refinement and assured responses expected from the Range Rover Sport. Information at your fingertips
Two high-definition 10-inch touchscreens form the centrepiece of the minimalist cabin with Touch Pro Duo. Fast and intuitive, it combines finely engineered physical controls and a beautiful digital interface to deliver a truly connected driving experience. The system looks simultaneously futuristic and elegant thanks to the interlinked 10-inch touchscreens that provide superior clarity and ease of operation with familiar tap, swipe and pinch-to-zoom control gestures on the upper screen. The customisable home screen also allows customers to create shortcuts to preferred features. Touch Pro Duo can dual-task for the driver, keeping the mapping information displayed on the upper touchscreen, while providing easy access to further features on the secondary lower display. By dividing information and controls logically between the two, the Range Rover Sport achieves a more intuitive user experience. The upper screen on the central console can be angled to counter glare and improve visibility while the fixed lower 10-inch display is the control panel and manages more functional tasks such as climate control, seat and vehicle settings. Key to its design are two rotary Dynamic Dials within the lower screen, which can be used to control the cabin temperature, fan speed, seat climate and massage functions. This can also be used to manage media and phone functionality via specialist widgets when the upper screen is in use. Exceptional clarity
The 12-inch high-resolution Interactive Driver Display includes dual dial, single dial and extended mode views. Other frequently used features – including phone, navigation and media settings – can also be managed using this cluster. In addition, the Range Rover Sport’s next-generation Head-Up Display system puts vital information just where the driver wants it, using a 10-inch full-colour projection with superior clarity and definition. It presents essential information on the windscreen, keeping vehicle speed and navigation directions in view at all times. Other updates include adaptive cruise control settings and Advanced Driver Assistance alerts. The information appears to hover beyond the windscreen thanks to an increased perceived projection distance, preventing a driver’s eyes from having to constantly refocus and helping to reduce the possibility of fatigue. The full-colour image is generated using four super-bright LEDs and a high-resolution TFT LCD screen. The image is sharper, up to 66 per cent brighter and more than twice the size of other systems, allowing customers to adjust the layout, height and brightness of the display. The most connected Range Rover Sport
The steering wheel controls feature intuitive capacitive switches and dynamic illuminated icons that make operating the Range Rover Sport’s features from behind the wheel simpler and safer. By only allowing the driver to adjust elements specifically related to the infotainment media being used, the switches provide increased functionality while maintaining the minimalist quality of the interior and enhancing the driving experience. The user-friendly switches provide full control of the instrument cluster, with media playback, phone, cruise control and heated steering wheel settings, plus a shortcut to a feature of the driver’s choosing. The capacitive ‘wheel’ also allows users to scroll through menus by finger or thumb. Working closely with Nuance, a global leader in voice recognition technology, the Range Rover Sport’s system is stored on a solid-state drive for instant response. It can also deal with more conversational interaction in English (UK and US), as well as offering helpful error feedback.
Passengers in the second row have a 10-inch rear seat entertainment touchscreen and with up to 14 connection points integrated discreetly throughout the cabin, the vehicle is perfectly equipped as a mobile workspace and entertainment hub. This is thanks to USB, HDMI and 12V connections in the front console cubby box, while there is also a 12V socket in the glove box. For rear passengers, there is 12V charging, domestic plug socket, USB and HDMI, while the load space also provides 12V and a second domestic plug socket to keep laptops and other devices topped up. There is also provision for up to eight 4G Wi-Fi connections, which ensures continuous connectivity on the move.
Land Rover’s latest online media functionality allows for the aggregation of numerous content providers – such as Deezer and TuneIn – that gives access to more than 40 million music tracks and four million on-demand programmes and podcasts. These can be accessed directly from the vehicle without the need for a smartphone – providing a seamless and integrated experience. For extra convenience, Land Rover’s innovative Activity Key wristband is available, allowing customers to lock and unlock the vehicle without using the standard fob. Perfect for runners, swimmers or cyclists who don’t want to carry a traditional key while exercising, the durable Activity Key is fully waterproof to depths of 18m and designed to withstand temperatures ranging from -50C to +125C degrees. To lock or unlock the vehicle, the Activity Key must be held within 30mm of the second “R” of the Range Rover badge on the tailgate. Once activated, the main vehicle fob is disabled and can be left safely inside the cabin. Improved driver assistance systems and InControl features
The suite of driver assistance features on the Range Rover Sport includes core elements such as Lane Departure Warning and Intelligent Emergency Braking, cruise control and speed limiter, which are all fitted as standard. The Drive Pack adds features to inform and equip customers for any journey. Central to this are Blind Spot Monitor, Adaptive Speed Limiter and Driver Condition Monitor,
The Drive Pro Pack features High Speed Emergency Braking, Blind Spot Assist, Lane Keep Assist, Adaptive Speed Limiter, Driver Condition Monitor and, from 2019 model year, Adaptive Cruise Control with Stop & Go. This uses a forward-facing camera and improved radar system to maintain a set gap to the vehicle ahead. This enables the driver to follow the vehicle in front to a complete stop and pull away automatically if stationary for less than three seconds. Beyond this, the vehicle can be prompted to resume with a tap of the accelerator or via a button on the steering wheel. The system is able to identify the relative speeds of other vehicles to an accuracy of one percent and detects stationary vehicles up to 100-metres away. Once a vehicle enters the system’s detection zone it is identified within 0.12 seconds and its position tracked 50 times a second. The Park Pack includes Land Rover’s 360-degree Parking Aid, Rear Traffic Monitor and Clear Exit Monitor, which alerts passengers exiting from the rear doors to potential hazards approaching from behind. If a vehicle is detected, a light flashes on the door to notify those attempting to disembark. The Park Pro Pack includes all of the above features with the addition of Park Assist – a suite of advanced automated parking features that aid parallel and perpendicular parking. A new Driver Assist Pack is also available from 2019 model year and includes all of the features within the Drive Pro and Park Pro packs, with the addition of Adaptive Cruise Control with Steering Assist. While the driver is required to keep their hands on the wheel, the system works with the driver to keep the vehicle centred in lane by applying moderate steering interventions up to speeds of 180km/h making driving and traffic situations more comfortable. Superior sound
All Range Rover Sport audio systems have been designed with meticulous attention to detail and a focus on finding optimum positions for every speaker around the cabin. Alongside Land Rover’s Base 250 audio system there are three industry-leading systems developed with renowned British audio experts Meridian. These include the 380W, 825W surround or 1,700W Signature systems, with 12, 18 and 22 speakers respectively and including a dual-channel subwoofer in each. The 1,700W Signature system benefits from four speakers in the vehicle headliner to deliver true three-dimensional sound quality. A car for all seasons
Peerless ride quality, regardless of the terrain or conditions, is a core part of the Range Rover Sport experience. With an advanced suspension system that combines poise and stability with exceptional ride isolation for flat, confident cornering, customers get a natural and intuitive feel behind the wheel. Comprising a lightweight front and rear design, the suspension layout perfectly complements the advanced aluminium construction. It is a fully independent layout features a wide-spaced double wishbone set-up at the front and an advanced multi-link layout at the rear. In order to achieve the perfect balance of agility, composure and comfort, Land Rover’s engineers focused on optimising chassis stiffness and fine-tuning the steering system to deliver the exhilarating driving experience demanded of the Range Rover Sport. All-terrain capability
Recognised for its class-leading off-road performance, the new Range Rover Sport builds on this with the P400e, as its electric motor offers greater control of torque from a standstill. This facilitates improved low-speed control and superior pull-away on low-grip surfaces. The low range transmission can also be operated in pure EV mode for near silent all-terrain journeys. Land Rover’s Terrain Response 2 technology has been returned to intelligently and precisely distribute torque from the electric motor – which has no creep speed and maximum torque from zero rpm – to all four wheels. This gives greater control during low-speed off-road manoeuvres, reaffirming the Range Rover Sport’s outstanding breadth of capability. Handling and performance across the model range can also be managed via a series of Terrain Response 2 programmes. This includes a Comfort mode which, calibrates the suspension settings to optimise ride comfort, while the Dynamic setting will give the driver a more dynamic ride. These exist alongside Grass Gravel Snow, Mud/Ruts, Sand, Rock Crawl and Eco settings. In Eco mode, the driver receives instantaneous feedback and guidance on driving more efficiently, while minimising electrical power consumption and highlighting the effects of certain features on fuel efficiency. It also softens the throttle pedal response, modifies the automatic transmission shift pattern and switches off heating for the door mirrors, steering wheel and seats to optimise fuel efficiency. The Range Rover Sport benefits from Jaguar Land Rover’s unique Low Traction Launch System, which helps to exploit all available traction when pulling away on slippery surfaces. Unlike All-Terrain Progress Control, the company’s all-terrain cruise control technology, Low Traction Launch initiates a unique throttle map to provide a more usable torque curve. The system is specifically designed to help drivers pull-away from a standstill on slippery surfaces such as wet grass, loose gravel and snow. Hill Descent Control is also fitted as standard, while excellent ground clearance and a smooth underfloor help the vehicle negotiate rough terrain. Wading capability for the P400e is also uncompromised with a maximum depth of 850mm. For deep water wading, it is recommended that the Ingenium petrol engine is running to prevent water entering the exhaust system. Four-wheel drive
The Range Rover Sport’s four-wheel-drive capability is managed by a transfer case design, which has a smart actuator rather than a separate motor and ECU. This results in a 1.5kg reduction in weight and is controlled via a multi-plate clutch. Together with the bevel gear centre differential it provides a 50:50 torque split. Using wheel slip information from a range of sensors, the clutch distributes torque evenly between all four wheels, while a ‘shift on the move’ system allows selectable high and low gears up to 60km/h. The Active Rear Locking Differential can also be optimised for cornering stability and traction. An even more weight-optimised four-wheel drive system is available on certain models and features a single-speed transfer box and Torsen differential. This provides a 42:58 torque split and offers excellent on-road performance and agility.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .