Doctors at work The Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Makurdi has recorded a feat by carrying out five successful spinal cord surgeries. The Chief Medical Director (CMD), Dr. Peteru Inunduh, told The Guardian yesterday in Makurdi that the hospital was first of such to conduct a spinal cord surgery in Benue State. He explained that the facility had trained a Consultant Specialist, Dr. Joseph Okoh, in Spine and Orthopedics in Egypt for the purpose. According to the CMD, “the orthopedic surgeon has so far carried out five successful spinal cord surgeries since his return in 2017. In addition, about 20 other medical doctors are undergoing various specialist trainings across the world.” He said government was willing to procure equipment for the spinal surgery unit, adding that the medical centre had seven standard theatres to accommodate the needs of trained specialists. His words: “We realise that the surgical equipment for spinal cord surgeries are expensive. In the 2018 budget, we have a sub-head for the purchase of medical equipment, and we intend to try as much as possible to procure between 70 and 75 per cent of the instruments they need for such major surgeries. “So, the Federal Government is prepared to support all specialists in their individual areas of specialisation for an improved healthcare system in the country. “Apart from the spine orthopedics consultant that we trained in Egypt, we have also trained a consultant in India that specialises in all kinds of plastic surgeries. We equally have someone to undergo training in gastroenteritis in India. “We have 20 doctors who have either completed or undergoing different kinds of specialist training locally and internationally.” Inunduh further revealed that the hospital had palliatives for indigent patients through its Department of Medical and Social Works where this category of persons gets free treatment. He continued: “The President Muhammadu Buhari administration is already providing a lot of palliatives in the educational sector and we intend to key into that to also provide these in the heath sector. “We have a lot of patients who are indigent. We know they need healthcare services but cannot afford them. We don’t insist that they pay. We have a programme that attends to their needs without necessary collecting money from them. This programme is coordinated by the Department of Medical and Social Works.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .