Tiwa Savage Femi Kuti, Wizkid, Tiwa Savage, Jay-Z, Beyonce For Mandela 100 Global Citizen Festival
There is no doubt to the fact, the year 2018 has been a year of Nigerian artistes selling out concerts and performing at major arenas. Following the success of Adekunle Gold’s sold out concert at the indigo O2 Arena, London, more Nigerian artistes such as Mavin Record diva, Tiwa Savage and Davido has announced the date to their concerts respectively. While Tiwa’s The Savage Tour: London Edition will hold August 24, 2018 Davido’s Live Concert is scheduled to hold January 29, 2019 at the iconic venue. The Savage Tour will make Tiwa the second Nigerian artiste in three months to headline an event at the iconic Arena. The past weeks have seen pop diva and her team release videos and clips building up to the event, and with the date now officially out, the tickets for the concert are already selling out fast. Taking to Instagram on Thursday, the Mavin first lady wrote: “Time is almost here, London I promise you carnival weekend is going to be bananas. Few tickets left for My FIRST ever headline UK show.” Adekunle Gold had on Friday, June 29, held a memorable concert at the arena, which he described as his biggest yet, as the event was sold out and witnessed performances from other acts including Simi. Starboy Record chief and recording act, Ayo Balogun, well known as Wizkid, had earlier in the year shut down the O2 Arena. Davido in an interview with Pulse stated that it was also his dream to achieve the same feat. “If you have faith as small as a mustard seed, you can move mountains!! London Jan 27th, 2019 we shut down the @theo2london arena!! I can’t do this without y’all. Africa let’s go,” he wrote on his Instagram page. The Aye singer, who recently won the BET Best International Act has continue to break boundaries and record iconic feats as he delivered a memorable performance at the Wireless Festival, which held in London last Saturday. It need be noted that the Skelewu crooner is no stranger to Indigo O2 Arena. He had in 2013 along side Lola Rae, Mo Eazy puts on an electrifying performance at the London arena. However, it is has been his dream to stage a concert at iconic event centre, and all now set for the to become a reality following the January 29, 2019 date. Meanwhile, Wizkid, Tiwa Savage, D’banj and Femi Kuti have been announced alongside Jay Z, Beyonce, Cassper Nyovest and Ed Sheeran as headliners for this year’s edition of Mandela 100 Global Citizen Festival, holding in Johannesburg, South Africa on December 2. CEO of Global Citizens, Hugh Evans, alongside supermodel Naomi Campbell and businessman Patrice Motsepe, on Monday, July 9, announced the lineup for the festival to celebrate former South African leader, Nelson Mandela’s centenary birthday. The event aims to celebrate the legacy of Mandela with the objective of inspiring social activism, leveraging on the star power of celebrities from around the world to make a difference in the lives of youth and end extreme poverty by 2030. The festival will bring an end to a year-long collaboration with the House of Mandela, the lifelong dedication of the former South African leader to rallying people together to use their collective voices to speak for the most marginalized people. Tiwa had in an interview with Billboard said, “What’s great about Global Citizen is that it gives artists an opportunity to use our music and our platforms to motivate and encourage activists to speak out about the issues that are affecting millions around us.” 