Good news for Nigerians. Google has announced that, in its bid to make the internet more easily accessible to Nigerians, it is launching Google Station for Nigeria. The program aims to provide high quality, high-speed WiFi hotspots. This announcement was made at the second Google for Nigeria event. Google Nigeria Country Director Juliet Ehimuan Chiazor said, “Google Station will be rolling out in 200 locations in five cities across Nigeria by the end of 2019, bringing Wi-Fi to millions of people. Sites include markets, transport hubs, shopping malls, universities, and more. Nigeria is the fifth country to get Google Station, after India, Indonesia, Thailand and Mexico.” Google for Nigeria. Photo: Twitter Google is also making search more powerful for ordinary Africans. Job search launched in March in South Africa, Nigeria and Kenya, and is now rolling out in 29 new countries. In Nigeria, Google is launching a search experience that allows users to explore health conditions based on symptoms, as well as recipe search for anyone who needs a little food inspiration. StreetView’s Discover Nigeria gallery has been expanded to include more of Nigeria’s wonders including the National Museum in Lagos, Olumo Rock in Abeokuta, Millennium Park in Abuja, and Lekki Conservation Centre. Additionally, Google announced the update of several products from its “Go” initiative, which were launched in the past year. The Go product suite aims to give people with low bandwidth connections and low-RAM devices the best possible Google experience. These new features include: Google Go: will soon read web pages out loud and highlight each word so users can follow along. YouTube Go: users will be able to browse downloaded YouTube Go videos, saved as .yt files, right from the gallery on their phones. Google Maps Go: will now provide users with turn-by-turn directions, whether they’re travelling by car, by bus or on foot. Android Go: Launched in Nigeria and 29 other African countries earlier this year, the Go OS gives people coming online for the first time a powerful and reliable smartphone experience. “We are offering new solutions to improve and expand access in Nigeria and across Africa; these launches demonstrate our commitment to Africa through products built to help people in Africa to make the most of the Internet,” concludes Ehimuan-Chiazor.