Rapid Response Squad Tunde Raphael, 24, who was last week arrested by officials of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) of the Lagos State police command, has explained how he and 19 other gang members dispossessed motorists and commuters of their belongings in Mile 2 bridge during traffic. Tunde, who was arrested at about 5:00a.m. along with two other accomplices, Samuel Kolawole, 23 and Solomon Omini, 32, on Wednesday after a chase by the operatives of the RRS, noted that the only job he had was robbing motorists and commuters of their belongings between 4:00a.m. and 6:30a.m. as well as at night. He disclosed that he and about 20 colleagues work in twos or threes holding toy guns, machetes, jack knives, hammers, rods and other weapons to dispossess commuters of phones, money, jewelry, laptops and other prized possessions. According to him, “it is a job I have been doing now for more than a year. As soon as we approach a car, we tell the occupants to bring out their belongings. Some would cooperate with us and give us their phones and money. “Some would wind up. I laugh at them because we would break that glass or use our prepared mixture that when thrown at their side glasses, would bring them down gently and we would take all that we want and leave the place. Those going to work or traders going to market are our main target. I sell the phones I collect for between N3,000 and N5,000 daily. “Recently we collected a huge money from three occupants of a vehicle. I don’t know the precise amount. We were two, my colleague tried to abscond with the money and I tried tracking him. Unfortunately for me, he noticed me and eventually matchèted me at a corner in the head. I lost so much blood and was unconscious. The cut was so severe that three hospitals rejected me. I still see this guy and he is still in this business with me.” Commenting on the development, Police PRO, CSP Chike Oti, stated that the police are intensifying efforts towards arresting traffic robbers in Mile 2 and other parts of the state. He added that substantial progress has been made in that area. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .