 PVC  He told The Guardian that this was necessary, despite the numerous challenges of insecurity, epileptic power supply, and high rate of unemployment.He expressed the hope that 2019 general elections, would signal the beginning of a new era for youths to actively participate in politics. The coordinator said the youths are now more determined to collaborate as united a united platform due to their love for the country.The youths added that they are not discouraged by the ill traits of greed, selfish ambition, lack of capacity and unnecessary in the country, which had weakened the ability of Nigerian youths. Ashibi declared that the governorship election in Ekiti State will be a litmus test to determine the country’s readiness for the 2019 general elections.He said: “Young people can change Nigeria easily because of their prowess and power of innovations. “A lot of Nigerians are of the opinion that there is no hope again for our nation. But, the reverse is the case, because young people are brainstorming on daily basis to find strategies to reclaim the lost Nigerian dream.” He explained that the they have been sensitising youths in Ekiti to shun electoral violence and vote credibly to determine who rules the state for the next four years. “I urge all Nigerians to wake up to the reality of a new nation where peace, love and prosperity will reign . This is possible, if we truly unite as one and collectively achieve the Nigerian dream laid down by the country’s founding fathers,” he said. Also, Acting Chairman, National Youth Party, Lagos State chapter, Seun Onih, said the shift of power to the younger generation was not negotiable.He said: “There is hope for the country, as youth are the leaders of today and the drivers of the fourth industrial revolution. “They have acquired skills that would be deployed in the socio-economic and political advancement of the nation.”Onih explained that “as a youth party, we believe in Nigeria first, before and beyond any particular individual. We are for all Nigerians, but the youths are the party’s focus. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .