Tall, smart, elegant and savvy; these are the words that best describe Igbere born businessman who has been instrumental to so many successful deals in the oil and gas sector as the managing director and CEO of Ceecon Energy Oil and Gas limited. Born under a heavily influenced entrepreneurial environment in Aba, Chima Anyaso not only took to business early in life, as his father was also a successful businessman in the Enyimba City, but he took his time to go to the university first where he earned a bachelor’s degree. In his characteristically inquisitive nature, as soon as he graduated, he travelled to Lagos to begin his journey into business and soon found a break in the oil and gas industry. At the age of 30, while so many young men would still be trying to find their feet in life, Anyaso had made his first billion and emerged as one of Nigeria’s young entrepreneur and business leader. Encouraged by his successful ventures, Anyaso was soon to venture into philanthropy. Through his initiatives in education, the Ahuoma Anyaso Educational Foundation was founded. The foundation, which provides free school, free feeding and conducive learning atmosphere for indigent students, has earned the recognition of various international bodies. Although richly blessed, Anyaso has more compassion and love for the poor that can equate to his wealth. He is seen donating to good causes around his native Abia state and around Nigeria, including some parts of Africa where he has identified people with urgent needs. Not satisfied with the progress he has recorded as an individual, Anyaso sort a platform to mobilise society into more inclusive drive for progress. He joined other like minds to found the Nigerian Young Professionals Forum, NYPF, through which platform he began a subtle but noticeable advocacy towards public reorientation and promotion of excellence in service, in both private and public sectors. Not done yet, he alongside others founded the New Nigerian Movement, NN19, a political pressure group committed to advancing the inclusive participation of youth in politics. That group became instrumental in the advocacy that latter resulted to the passage of the Not Too Young to Run Bill, which was recently accented to by President Muhammadu Buhari. A firm believer that government should work for the benefit of the people and that the legislature is the bedrock of effective democracy, Anyaso has recently indicated interest to run for the Bende Federal House of Representative’s seat under the umbrella of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP. Despite entreaties from various other political parties within Abia state, he prefers to stick with the PDP because of his firm belief in the party structure in the state and the good relationship that he has earned from party leaders, especially the governor, Okezie Victor Ikpeazu. For his numerous contributions to humanitarian services, Anyaso has received so many awards and recognitions, among which is Forbes rated African Achievers Award given at the British Parliament. In presenting him with that award, the awardees described the Community Impact Award as a coveted prize reserved for individuals who have shown commitment towards changing the lives of the less privileged in no small measure. Married to a daughter of one of Nigeria’s outstanding politicians and administrators, Senator Arthur Nzeribe, Anyaso is poised to offer a bold and differentiated political dividend built on the principle of inclusiveness, growth and entrepreneurship. At 38, and still waxing strong in business, Anyaso is not only tall physically, but he is articulate about his tall vision for a new Bende and Abia, and thoughtful of the poor in the society with a drive to reduce poverty. Victor Ikem, a media consultant, wrote from Lagos. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .