 The Governing Council of the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS)  The President/Chairman of Council, Adedapo Adekoje, whose investiture is scheduled for July 26, in Lagos, made the call when he engaged the stock broking community on the trading floor of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) at the weekend. Adekoje said the move was first in the series of many interactive sessions slated for stockbrokers by the new administration of the CIS. He appealed to stockbrokers to ensure a high level of ethical standard, because capital market thrives on investors’ trust, as they play pivotal role in all capital market activities. Thanking the brokers for their unflinching support of the Institute’s activities, leading to the achievement of numerous milestones, he equally solicited for greater support for its future programmes. He said: “Our Institute is in the process of transition. The onus is on us to urgently reposition our Institute and our profession for emerging challenges and opportunities. “ To achieve this, we must tap into the vast knowledge, expertise and experience of our members. I charge you to continue to support your institute with everything you have; and in turn I can assure you that you will derive a lot of benefits ultimately.”
 
Adekoje was accompanied to the Exchange by the immediate past president of the Institute, Oluwaseyi Abe; the first Vice President, Tunde Amolegbe; second Vice President, Wole Adeosun; Registrar and Chief Executive, Adedeji Ajadi; and a Council member, Mrs Elizabeth Ebi. The team had earlier paid a courtesy visit to the NSE management, where the two parties robbed minds on the need to move the market forward. The Exchange’s Head, Shared Services Division, Bola Adeeko, commended the Institute for its outstanding performances since existence, describing it as a partner in progress with NSE. Adeeko advised the Institute to join hands with the Exchange to successfully actualise its demutualisation programme.
 
Corroborating, the doyen of the day, Sam Ndata, congratulated members of the CIS new administration on their election, and urged the executives to work closely with stockbrokers for enhanced development of the profession. Ndata also commended the previous administration for its achievements, and promised that stockbrokers would continue to support the Institute. He however advised the new administration to ensure regular dialogue with the stockbrokers, as a strategic move to ensure their support for market development. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .