 Mobile phone  Similarly, Head of Sales – Microfinance & Saas (Africa), Temenos, Nehal Batavia, shared that Temenos has been providing innovative solutions to financial institutions worldwide for 25 years.   
   
Batavia said Temenos also provides innovative software solutions to banks of all sizes, “all around the world, helping them to thrive in the digital banking age,” through building, delivering and supporting financial institutions with the world’s best packaged, upgradeable and open banking software.
   
In a joint presentation by the trio of Kingsley Oseghale, General Manager, Enterprise Business; Tope Dare, Executive Director, Sales & Strategy (Infrastructure Business Division); and Adeyemi Ademiluyi, Cyber security Manager, at Inlaks, argued that there was no way that the issue of cybersecurity could be left unattended to when discussing banking in the digital age.
   
Ademiluyi said: “There are opportunities in this digital era, but there are also real threats in digital banking and it is important that organisations stay safe. Every day, attacks are launched at digital companies and these attacks are becoming more sophisticated. The ‘cyber thieves’ are becoming more creative and innovative in their approach. Organisations spend thousands and millions of dollars trying to put in place security software and infrastructure to limit these threats. We have been helping our clients to stay safe using multiple steps which will keep them ahead of cyber thieves.”
   
Dare, on his part, said the company had partnered with credible companies, like Temenos and HID to provide a security infrastructure that can help digital banking platforms mitigate the problem of cyber theft.
   
Senior Sales Manager Financial Services EMEA, HID Global, Ondrej Valent, in his presentation on, “Overcoming the Data Sharing Challenge,” highlighted how HID is
turning products into solutions by offering maximum strategic value of their customer’s investments.
[ad unit=2 To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .