There is an app for nearly everything, whether you are planning your next dream trip or need somewhere safe to pee. We’ve rounded up some of the best tools for the digital-savvy traveller. These handy helpers are available on both Android and iOS and —the best part — they’re free. AccuWeather for Android. Photo: Pinterest No one likes getting caught in a sudden downpour or finding that the weather has suddenly changed. Available in over 100 languages, AccuWeather provides real-time weather forecasts. XE Currency app. Photo: Waypoints Global This is the go-to site for live exchange rates for currency and precious metals around the world. XE can store the most recent rates for you to access if your device is offline. App in the Air. Photo: AntyApps Consider this your personal flying assistant. The smart, straightforward, flight tracking app will keep you updated about your flight status, help you manage your time at the airport (check-in, boarding, takeoff and landing time), track delays, help you navigate airports and keep track of your mileage routes. Citymapper. Photo: Medium Available in 30 major cities, this detailed app takes your digital map a step further when trying to get around a city. It makes finding and using public transportation easier. It connects with ride-sharing services like Uber, includes real-time departures and even alerts you when you need to get off the bus. Google Translate app. Photo: Out of Town Blog This is like having a personal interpreter. Speak or type anything in any of the app’s 103 supported languages, and it’ll translate it to your preferred language. You can also hold your camera up to the text on signs, menus or books, and Google will translate it for you instantly. LiveTrekker app. Photo: Travel Observers This app creates a digital journal of your travels so you can look back on your trips on an interactive map. It tracks your movement, and you can add pictures, video, audio and text along the way, creating a multimedia travel diary you can share.