There is no country in the world that isn’t blessed with natural wonders. What makes certain countries thrive in tourism are their abilities to creatively and seamlessly fuse their unique geographical elements with sustainable businesses and organisations to create experiences unique. Sri Lanka is bursting with beauty, vibrancy, culture, history and personality. The breathtakingly beautiful island formerly known as Ceylon is surrounded by exotic wildlife, untouched palm-fringed beaches, lush mountains, waterfalls definitely worth chasing and tea plantations that will leave you revelling for hours on end.  Expect the most delightful spicy rice and curry you’ll ever taste, the freshest orange king coconuts as well as opulent Hindu temples, glistening Muslim mosques and chiselled Buddhist stupas. Increasingly, in recent years, it boasts some of the most luxurious boutique hotels in the world.  So why is this paradise only just becoming a must-see for wanderlust chasers?  Between 1983 and 2009, the island was entangled in one of the longest civil wars in recent history; there was also a tragic tsunami in 2014 in which over 30,000 people lost their lives. Thankfully, the ever-resilient island nation has spent years integrating the country’s previously isolated ethnicities and harmonising the experiences of its visitors. Sri Lanka has successfully re-established herself as a serene mecca for luxury travellers and true explorers.  Adam’s Peak. Photo_ Atlas and Boots There is no better way to experience the breath-taking natural beauty of Sri Lanka’s sunrises than from the very top. Hiking to the top of Adam’s Peak is also a great way to burn off all that spicy rice and curry.   Nuwara Eliya, often referred to as “Little England”, promises an indescribable sense of peace and serenity you just have to experience to believe.  Udawalawe Elephants. Photo_ Asiatourist Avoid tiger kingdoms in Asia and visit the baby elephant orphanage that actually cares about the safety of the exotic species. Watching them eat and play will have you bursting with glee!  Mirrisa Beach. Photo_ Crazemag Sri Lanka beaches have crystal clear blue waters, coconut trees and stunning sunsets that create beyond perfect settings for Instagram “money shots”.  The enthralling railway system in Sri Lanka that has been running since the colonial times is the perfect blast from the past. The icing on the cake is the views of the gorgeous landscapes and waters along the way.  The Sigiriya rock is the most sacred and historical monument in Sri Lanka. It is also said to be the unofficial 8th Wonder of the World.  Galle Fort. Photo_ Enchanting Travels The fort built in 1588 lies on the southwest coast of Sri Lanka. It boasts an extremely extensive and impressive history and is the perfect mix of European architecture and Asian heritage. 