 Ayodele Fayose  Ekiti State Governor, Ayodele Fayose, yesterday announced the promotion of 37,132 workers.Fayose, who spoke in Ado-Ekiti, said their promotion had been kept in view since 2015 due to the state’s poor finances. A breakdown of the promotion showed that 23, 480 were promoted in the civil service, Hospital Management Board, Teaching Service Commission and parastatals.Others were 13, 652 in SUBEB and Local Government Service Commission. Fayose urged the workers to vote for his deputy, Olusola Kolapo Eleka, to continue his administration’s good works.On the new minimum wage, he called for a review of the existing revenue formula to favour the states to pay the wage bill.He also asked the labour unions to mount pressure on the Federal Government to release the differential between the oil benchmark and the new oil price. The state Chairman, Trade Union Congress  (TUC), Odunayo Adesoye, commended the governor for the kind gesture.In Ondo State, the workers staged a walk out on Governor Rotimi Akeredolu. This followed his declaration that he would not pay them their leave bonus, because it is not their legitimate right, but a privilege.The workers chanted anti-government songs to protest against the statement in Akure, the state capital.Efforts by government officials and security operatives to appease the workers proved abortive.To further worsen the sarcastic remarks, the governor in his speech added: “The pervasive poverty in the land is traceable to a largely unproductive and parasitic workforce.” He, however, asserted that his administration was committed to a more productive workforce in the state.Akeredolu disclosed that the state would soon transform from ‘civil servant state’ to an industrialised hub. Meanwhile, in Oyo State, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and its counterpart, the United Labour Congress of Nigeria (ULC), held parallel celebrations in Ibadan. While the NLC held its own at the Adamasingba Stadium in Mokola area of Ibadan, the ULC marked the day at the Independent Petroleum Marketers building (IPMAN House), in Apata, Ibadan. The NLC State chairman, Waheed Olojede read the speech of the NLC National President, Ayuba Wabba.He urged the Federal Government to address the disparity between the remuneration of political office holders and other workers in the public sector. The state Secretary of ULC, Adejoke Oyeleke, presented seven-point demands on behalf of the Acting Chairman, Leye Olayemi.A statement by the ULC National President, Joe Ajaero, also urged the Federal Government to re-define the fight against corruption.In Ogun State, the state chairman of the NLC, Akeem Ambali demanded a “living” wage for the workers.At the event, which was held at the MKO Abiola stadium, Abeokuta, he said the present N18, 000 minimum wage has become unrealistic. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .