Anthony Anwuka. PHOTO: today.ng • Katsina Islamic varsity expels 16 students for gross misconduct
• JAMB conducts police recruitment test today The Federal Government has begun probe of illegal collection of tuition fees by universities nationwide. Director, Press and Public Relations, Ministry of Education, Mrs. Chinenye Ihuoma, who disclosed this to The Guardian yesterday in Abuja, said the Minister of State for Education, Prof. Anthony Anwukah, had deployed members of staff of the ministry to go round the states to determine federal universities that charged tuition fees. She gave the assurance that any university found wanting at the end of the investigation will be sanctioned according to the provisions of the law. In another development, 16 students of Al-Qalam University in Katsina State have been expelled for various offences considered as gross misconduct in the rules and regulations governing the institution. A statement issued yesterday by the institution’s Public Affairs Unit said the Senate of the university approved the expulsion of the students. It added that their expulsion followed a report submitted by the Academic Misconduct and Disciplinary Committee, which had handled 65 cases before reaching the verdict. It said those who received the Senate’s sanctions were said to have committed offences ranging from forgery, examination malpractices, indecent dressing, immoral behaviour and rudeness. Besides, it said that apart from the 16 students who were expelled, nine other students were asked to proceed on suspension for a period of two semesters. Meanwhile, the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) has said that the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) will today, Friday, May 25, 2018, conduct examination for those shortlisted for recruitment into the police. A statement signed by the Force Public Relations Officer, Jimoh Moshood, yesterday in Abuja, said the recruitment test would be conducted across the 36 states of the federation, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). It said: “Candidates who were successful in the physical and credentials screening stage have been notified through text messages and those who did not receive the message can check for their exam centres through. www.policerecruitment.ng; www.jamb.gov.ng; www.psc.gov.ng.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .