Mydrim Gallery, one of Nigeria’s oldest galleries, is set to mark the Mydrim Gallery’s 25th anniversary with a Master’s Exhibition which will take place on the 3rd to 4th of June at the Desiderata in Banana Island. Mydrim over the years has persistently worked to correct that anomaly and create a platform for educating Nigerians about the importance and value of art. Speaking at the press conference, the gallery’s founder Mrs Sinmidele Adesanya, explained the importance of an exhibition such as this by relating to the Nigerian proverb that says “A river that does not know its source will soon run dry.” This exhibition will exhibit twelve Masters such that art lovers, artists and art students know the “source” of contemporary art today. Mydrim Gallery Masters Exhibition These are some of the artists who steered the course and remained committed and focused on developing the visual arts in Nigeria in the face of monumental challenges. That is not all, these artists also create emblems of Nigerian society at large and add depths to the culture. The masters in this exhibition have not only created an extensive body of work but they have also changed the ideology of what it is to be an artist and African at that. They have brought world renown to Nigerian art and have broken away from Western training in artistic techniques; namely, to exemplify, Bruce Onobrakpeya and Yusuf Grillo brought reform to early Nigerian art in their school days by forming the Zaria Art Society which rebelled against Western techniques. All of the Masters in this exhibition have dedicated their lives to serving the arts and have extensively studied, researched and honed their talent. As a result, Mydrim wishes to celebrate some of these artists in their lifetime since Mydrim has been a part of all of their journeys in some shape or form. Jimoh Akolo El Anatsui Abayomi Barber Jimoh Buraimoh David Dale Nike Davies-Okundaye Bisi Fakeye Yusuf Grillo Gani Odutokun Bruce Onobrakpeya Kolade Oshinowo Muraina Oyelami See their works below: