 Lagos State governor, Akinwunmi Ambode  The governor also maintained that it was importance that they promote a peaceful atmosphere at all times, as it was necessary for development.Ambode, who spoke at the inauguration of the newly constituted Lagos State Council of obas and chiefs, said the traditional institution also plays a pivotal role in promoting the state’s tourism campaign as harbingers of culture and tradition. He said the new council came at a time of momentous change in evolution of the state, especially with his administration’s development agenda to ensure that government’s presence was felt in every community. “Our government has immense regard for our royal fathers and traditional rulers and we always welcome advice from that revered institution to maintain social harmony and ensure peaceful coexistence in our state.“I, therefore, use this opportunity to call on the new leadership of the Council of Obas and Chiefs to continue to address anti-social behaviors in their communities. Peace and security are the most important ingredients for development in the state and you all have an important role to play in this. “As custodians of the culture and tradition of our people, our royal fathers should also be at the forefront of the state’s tourism campaign. A significant aspect of tourism is our culture and historical sites, which fall under your jurisdiction,” he said.He added that the state’s tourism potential and the resources being channeled by government to environmental regeneration and creation of tourist hubs should be showcased to the world, insisting that such required their support and cooperation. Meanwhile, the Lagos State Government yesterday, said its N874.38b debt profile was manageable, as it was still within the World Bank’s 30 per cent debt service charge ratio.Commissioner for Finance, Akinyemi Ashade, said this at the Ministerial Press Briefing to commemorate Governor Ambode’s third year anniversary in office. He said the state government has continued to maintain a positive credit rating, adding, however, that a downgrade of Nigeria’s sovereign rating would lead to corresponding action on the state’s international drawing rights. On the revised Land Use Charge (LUC), Ashade said the state has continued to engage stakeholders in line with its tradition of inclusive governance, adding that it had received positive responses from all quarters. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .