 A gas plant PHOTO: MYNAH Technologies  To commence the pilot project of employing “One City Bus and One Truck” initiative, the partners met with key stakeholders to introduce Clean and Environmentally Sustainable Transportation (CEST) programme. This innovation is to provide gas engines for vehicles with CNG solutions, which will significantly reduce CO2 emissions on Nigerian roads, along with savings of millions of Naira for the end-users. Speaking at the reception of the CEST Programme hosted at the Austrian Commercial Counsel’s residence, the Chairman of Powergas Africa, Deepak Khilnani, said the project is a highly innovative one that will change the face of transportation in Nigeria. “We are also calling on all stakeholders to join us as we make this technology transfer in utilization of Nigerian Natural Gas for transportation to happen in the next one year. “Reports suggest that there are 178 Gas Flare sites in Nigeria. The quantity of the gas flared is enough to meet Nigeria’s energy demands and leave a healthy balance for export especially for many neighboring African countries. “Powergas believes in natural gas as a fuel that can be used to power a whole lot more at a much lower cost. Natural gas is a viable cleaner alternative fuel to PMS/AGO as it produces fewer emissions and the running cost of vehicles is around 30-40 per cent less”, he said. The CEST is achievable with having CNG filling stations in strategic places all over the country, as these gas stations will allow buses and trucks access to CNG that is much cheaper when compared to diesel or petrol. Nigeria flares as much gas as it imports diesel and petrol, and with Powergas’ Flare Gas Recovery Project, the flared gas will be turned into fuel that can power NGV vehicles. The Chief Executive Officer of ETEFA, Johann Rieger, said that “although we have a long way to go because this is new, we are ready to go all the way in proffering frugal energy and transport solutions for Nigeria. “Flared gas is a resource that is being wasted today. Tomorrow, this could be a huge potential which can be channeled into fueling different types of vehicles like cars and public transport.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .