Uche Secondus. Photo: Twitter/UcheSecondus • Atiku Tells Nigerians To Unite, Take Back Country
The opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), yesterday, held a rally in Osogbo, the Osun State capital. The party’s National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, while addressing party faithful, who came from the South West geo-political zone, said the PDP will not succumb to intimidation in its effort to win the 2019 general election and the governorship elections in Ekiti and Osun States. He said PDP is on a rescue mission to wrest power from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). He said Nigerians are tired of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration because of poverty, hunger and insecurity in the land. Similarly, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar urged Nigerians to unite against all forms of division currently threatening the peace of the country. Atiku, who is also a presidential aspirant in the 2019 presidential election, urged all PDP stakeholders across the nation to make sacrifices and forge a united front to defeat the APC and Buhari’s government, declaring that all indicators in the polity show that the time is ripe for the opposition to rise on behalf of Nigerians and take back the country from the APC’s voyage of destruction. Shouts of “Atiku! Atiku!” filled the air, when he reminded South West people how in 2003, he worked tirelessly to take the region back from the then Alliance for Democracy (AD). He promised to do it again in 2019, if he emerges presidential candidate of the PDP. He assured that the party would reposition the country on a true path to peace and prosperity via restructuring and strengthening of critical national institutions of government, when it returns to power next year. Also, former Jigawa State governor, Alhaji Sule Lamido, asked party members to close rank and be prepared to send APC home. In his is usual characteristic manner, Ekiti State governor, Ayodele Fayose, erupted in a Yoruba song of victory: “Buhari a lo! Buhari a lo! Osinbajo a tele!” meaning, ‘Buhari will go and Osinbajo will follow him’. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .