Thousands of members of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) in Kaduna State have decamped to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The aggrieved members of the ruling party hinged their action on the poor performances of the federal and state government in addressing the plights of Nigerians. Leading the members on Monday, the lawmaker representing Kachia/Kagarko Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Adams Jagaba, said they had experienced the two parties, but said the PDP still has Nigerians at heart and in its policies, compared with the incumbent ruling party. While Jagaba flayed the ruling party for lack of initiatives and nothing concrete to offer Nigerians, he said, “The administration is ruling with intimidation and full of hate speeches and other vices.” According to him, “The party has brought kidnapping, cattle rustling and disunity among Nigerians, which have resulted into abject poverty in the country and insecurity.” He also described the ruling party as one that does not mean well for the youth by failing to provide jobs as promised during the 2015 campaign “this is reasons the country is facing all manners of social vices that has become the order of the day. “On behalf of the decampees of Southern Kaduna, l am assuring the PDP that we shall together fight to ensure we liberate Nigerians from the leadership of APC to restore the country back to its lost glory.” The erstwhile governor of Kaduna State and Chairman, of the disbanded PDP Caretaker Committee, Senator Ahmed Makarfi called on all eligible voters in Kaduna to vote for PDP. According to him, “This is the only way to rescue the citizens out of the present challenges that the ruling party has plunged it in the last three years.” Makarfi also enjoined Nigerians to vote the APC out of power in 2019 and restore PDP, which according to him is the only means the country could be restored to life, peace, unity and development. National Secretary of PDP, Senator Umaru Ibrahim Tsauri in his remark said Nigerians should ensure that their vote counts. He stressed: “Voting APC out of government is the only way to restore the dignity of the country among comity of nations. Nigeria has been characterized with all manners of intimidation and social vices that have become the order of the day in all parts of the country. “We need to free ourselves in the country by voting the present government out of office and the only way to get this done is to go out and vote.” PDP state chairman, Hassan Hyet, said the APC-led government has brought all types of social vices to the nation, making it impossible to continue from where PDP left in the development of the country. He added that the thousands APC faithful left for PDP in Southern Kaduna local government areas in order to overcome what he described as the hopeless situation Nigerians have found themselves. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .