 Rauf Aregbesola, Governor State of Osun.  The group also advised political parties to present competent and credible candidates for consideration by the electorate saying the growth of Osun development portfolio should surpass other considerations.
 
In a statement after its general meeting in Osogbo, the Chairman of the association, Dr. Segun Aina said, “The ODA is a non-partisan body of eminent sons and daughters of Osun set up in 1995 as an intervention group in the affairs of and accelerated development of Osun State. The ODA, he said, is focused and determined to seek partnership with other stakeholders and collaborate to promote political enlightenment initiatives as part of strategic growth agenda for the state. According to him, “The association is seeking to create platforms that will help deepen democratic structures by creating enlightenment on citizens’ rights, adequate political education, participation and empowerment. “The governorship elections in September 2018 will provide a good opportunity for us to engage the public and political class in creating an atmosphere for very good candidates to emerge and for the voting public to be better informed.” The ODA noted it was not unaware of financial strains Nigerians are passing through due to the economic challenges in the society but urged people of the state to be determined in electing credible leaders to enhance enthronement of good governance. His words, “While a lot of people will offer you inducement it is not in your best interest to allowed the inducement being giving to you to determine who you are going to vote for. “I know there is a lot of poverty in the land, a lot of people have not been paid salary, there is pressure to make money and the ideal thing is not to take the money but if you take the money vote according to your conscience on who you think will best represent your interest.” He also advised the youths to shun violence during election processes adding, “Everybody should get involved. Not all of us can be registered members of a political party but we should do our best to vote so as to determine what goes on in our state.” He further urged all qualified individuals to register and collect their Permanent Voters Card to enable them perform their civic responsibilities stressing, “Without PVC you can’t vote and if you do not vote you are not making your voice to be heard in determining who will be representing you in government.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .