 [file]  Nigeria’s golf sensation, Georgia Oboh, will compete against the best women golfers in the 400,000 euros VP Bank Ladies Open in Switzerland… in May.  The 16-year-old girl, who is driving Nigeria’s surge to the world-class level in the game, just emerged from the Ladies European Tour (LET) Lalla Meryem Cup in Morocco, where she was adjudged the best amateur. Now, she is set to tango with the best in the women game once again at the VP Bank Ladies Open in Switzerland. In Morocco, Georgia defeated some of the higher rated amateurs, including the local star, to gain some valuable points, as well as tips from the event, which also featured professional players. Oboh, who rates Morocco as a great experience, is grateful to her friends and family, who rallied round to raise the much-needed funds for her to be in Switzerland. Now, she is looking forward to the Fifth VP Bank Ladies Open, which begins at the Gams Wederberg Golf Club this weekend. In attendance in the competition are lady professionals from both the LET and the Access Series Tours (road to LET and feeder tour). Georgia, who was also invited to the competition last year, will, however, not have a share of the prize money since she is still an amateur. But she is not worried because, among other things, she believes the experience from the event will aid her performance at the 2018 Youth Olympic Games in Buenos Aires, Argentina, where she is Nigeria’s sole entrant in the golf event. There is a strong field in Gams, with 28 of the professionals, who made the cut in the Lalla Meryem Cup, as well as six of the top 12 in attendance. They include Lynn Carlsson and Julia Engstrom from Sweden, who were fourth and fifth in Morocco respectively, Katja Pogacar of Slovenia, who shared eighth place with Fuenfstueck and Noemi Jimenez Martin from Spain, who tied for 11th in a group with Wolf. Georgia is carrying the Nigerian flag proudly, but she is still seeking the required funding to help her prepare well for the Youth Olympic Games. And her team is still hopeful that a corporate body will come to her aid soon. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .