Dufil Prima Foods, makers of Indomie Noodles, under the auspices of its Children Fan Club, has flagged off this year’s edition of Children’s Day celebration. The event, which hosted over 100,000 pupils from various schools across Nigeria, had in attendance, the first lady of Lagos State, Bolanle Patience Ambode. During the event, the children were engaged in dance competitions and quiz contests aimed at stimulating their intellectual reasoning. They also enjoyed other fun activities, which include bumper car, carousel, the rockets, the pirates’ ship, the spinner, the tea cup, disco ride, the air bicycle, cartoon shows, cultural performances and face painting, all in a bid to deepen the social interactions among them. Speaking at the event, Bolanle Ambode commended the corporate commitment of Dufil Prima Foods for their child friendly disposition and also for giving the Nigerian children the opportunity of a memorable children’s day across different cities in the country. Ambode used the opportunity to encourage the children to do their best to become good citizens of the nation. “You must always obey your parents and teachers, respect your elders, be humble and read your books. If you can do this, you will inevitably become good leaders someday”. She said. Chief Operating Officer, Dufil Prima Foods Plc, Girish Sharma, while speaking at the event, thanked the first lady for taking out time to be present and impacting the kids with valuable morals, adding that it only goes to show that her Excellency is indeed a mother of all. “We at Dufil place the utmost value on children as many of our brands are synonymous with kids. We believe that one of the best responsibilities we can undertake is to celebrate this great day with the Nigerian kids. Without you kids, we can’t exist. There is no doubt that children are a special gift and should be nurtured with great dedication and passion; that’s why we continue to place a premium on the wellbeing and overall developmental growth of the Nigerian child as is evident in the children focused projects we constantly embark upon”. Giving the welcome address, the Group Public Relations and Event Manager, Dufil Prima Foods Plc, Tope Ashiwaju, stated that the Indomie Children’s Day celebrations was an annual activity that the company has consistently marked for a decade now and the reason is not far-fetched, as it has remained a passion of the company to show appreciation and love to the children, who happen to be the brand’s core loyalists.He also explained that the essence of the party is to ensure as many children as possible get to have a memorable Children Day’s celebration.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .