  If you are new to the world of houseplants, it’s important to choose the right first plants for you. Gardening is about knowing what you can handle and building on your skills. When choosing your first houseplant start with something low-maintenance and forgiving, while you develop your indoor gardening skills. As a toddling plant enthusiast, it is better to put down a difficult plant and pick up one that some describe as “ice-breakers”, easy to nurture plants. This will allow you time to comfortably learn how to take care of an indoor plant. From there, you can slowly build up your collection. Some of the easiest varieties to start with are: peace lilies(Spathiphyllum), devil’s ivy, pothos (Epipremnum aureum), cast-iron plant(Aspidistra elatior), Zanzibar gem, zz plant (Zamioculcas) and Swiss cheese or salad plant (Monstera deliciosa), mother-in-law or snake plant (Sanseviera). These are all tough varieties that will allow you to see and feel how they react to light, water and nutrition. As you live with them over time, you can consider them your training wheels. Once they have helped you understand the basics, you’ll be ready for the more difficult plants. If you are new to gardening, begin with one or two new plants. A common mistake made by new plant enthusiasts is to buy plants for their entire home in one go, which won’t give the time you need to establish the skills required for indoor gardening. Instead, start with one or two plants and use these to develop your skills. Once they are thriving and you have discovered what works, continue adding to your collection. Choosing Plants
When choosing a plant at the nursery garden, ensure it is healthy and check it for pests and diseases. Look for wilted leaves or leaves with holes. Also check under leaves and branches and trunks for any pests that may have attached themselves to the plant. Squeeze the container to ensure the root system is established. When squeezed, the container should remain firm and the soil should stay intact; you can also gently pull the trunk up away from the soil while holding the container in your hand to ensure the root system is established. Always consider when to buy and transport your houseplant home as they suffer from shock when exposed to extreme temperatures i.e. too cold or too hot, be aware of the heat. Always remember plants need to acclimatize, so when you get them home, keep them sheltered from harsh light and strong droughts. A great way to start your gardening journey is to practice with different types of plants. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .