  They said even before the passage of the bill, they were ready to take charge and move the country to the desired level where every Nigerian would reap better dividends of democracy In his Democracy Day Speech, President Buhari had declared that he would be joined by young Nigerians to sign the Bill into law in a matter of days. Speaking with The Guardian, a 40-year old presidential aspirant, Ahmed Buhari, said the President’s statement was timely but long overdue, saying the older generation had failed the nation. While affirming that he would run for the presidential office next year, he said: “This is the best time for this to happen. Nigeria and its youths have never been more prepared than now. “I declared to run for the office in 2016 and I have been consistent with that vision. How ready do you expect us to be?” Read More: A kaleidoscope of Buhari’s performance in education sector Acting Chairman, Nigeria Youth Party (NYP), Seun Oni, stated that the Nigerian youths have shown exceptional capacity in public affairs and business while taking keen interest in governance and affairs of their fatherland, which makes them more than prepared for leadership roles. He said the NYP, which was undergoing registration with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), has concluded arrangements to take over power from the older generation, who he said, had overstayed in the corridors of power. Meanwhile, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Ebenezer Babatope, said the bill, if signed into law, would signal a new era for the country’s politics. “I am happy to see younger people coming up. I wish them the best of luck,” adding that the PDP was a youth friendly party and ready to accommodate those who are able and capable to deliver. He, however, stressed that leadership focus was not all about age, but the young and old working together to ensure good governance. “What is important is that the two groups should come together and pursue a common cause that will bring about greater development of the country,” he added. Also speaking, Executive Director, Centre fro Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CAPOL), Debo Adeniran, noted that allowing the youths to actively participate in politics was a welcome development. He, however, argued that good governance was not about age but capacity and integrity. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .