 The National Chairman, of All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Odigie-Oyegun PHOTO: PHILIP OJISUA  The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) correspondents, who monitored the exercise in different parts of the state, reports that the process was orderly, peaceful and transparent. NAN reports that Option A4 was adopted in most council areas visited including Umuahia North, Isialangwa north and South, Aba South, Aba North, Obingwa and Umunneochi local government areas. Speaking on the exercise, some chieftains of the party expressed joy that the exercise was devoid of rancour and acrimony. Former Speaker, Abia State House of Assembly, Chief Martins Azubuike (Isialangwa north constituency) and a member of the house, Chief Ikedi Ezekwesili (Umunneochi constituency), said the adoption of Option A4 made the process transparent. They described the process and the entire exercise as orderly and peaceful, adding that the process helped to eliminate bitterness and post-election crisis. Read More: Bwari Area Council: APC promises to be stronger, bigger in 2019 According to Azubuike, today’s congress by all standards has been a very successful exercise because of the foundation laid during last Saturday’s ward congress. Ezekwesili said that with Option A4 “those who lost saw why they lost, while those who won saw how they won. “So everybody went home satisfied and there is celebration everywhere in Umunneochi LGA.” Speaking in a similar vein, a chieftain of the party in Umuahia North, Chief Joshua Ogbonna, expressed delight that the exercise went on peacefully and successfully. Meanwhile, a faction of the party loyal to Chief Ikechi Emenike also held a parallel congress at Umuawa Alaocha Primary School in Umuahia North LGA. The congress, which also adopted Option A4, elected Chief Nelson Udenze (Chairman), Onyebuchi Igodo (Treasurer), Chigozie Oriaku (Secretary) and Mercy Uchechukwu (Women Leader). At Obingwa, the congress elected Chinedu Ihesiulo (Chairman), Mr Solomon Okezie (Secretary), Lovina Okpara (Woman Leader), NAN reports that the losers congratulated the winners and embraced them in a rare show of the spirit of sportsmanship. Speaking with newsmen at the end of the exercise, former Deputy Gov. Chris Akomas, who is a delegate and member, Board of Trustees of the party, expressed joy over the peaceful congress in the area. Akomas thanked the leaders, the delegates and other chieftains of the party for their discipline and good conduct during the exercise. NAN reports that Mr Israel Nwachukwu, who emerged chairman, polled 190 votes to defeat Mr Ken Obani, who polled seven votes. In Umuahia south, all the candidates were returned unopposed, with Mr Celestine Nzeadibe as Chairman, Speaking with newsmen on the outcome of the exercise, Chief Obioma Iheanacho, a former member of the House of Representatives, said he was excited over the peaceful congress. At the time of filing the report, members of the Local Government Congress Committee,  headed by Alhaji Abdullahi Bello, had only received results from Umuahia North, Bende and Isialangwa north LGAs.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .