  In a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Malam Bolaji Abdullahi, the APC wondered how the PDP arrived at such figure since Governor Abubakar Badaru-led convention committee is yet to present its budget to the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party. The party, however, said that the expenses for both the national convention and the presidential convention had been duly captured in its 2018 budget. It noted: “The issue of N6 billion convention expenses is neither here nor there. While we assure Nigerians that the APC has not adopted the PDP’s practice of dipping their hands into the public till to fund its political activities as brazenly displayed during the 2015 elections. We equally call on the PDP to emulate the APC’s best practice of financial probity and openness by making public their audited reports and financial statements if they have.” The PDP had accused the Presidency of forcing APC governors to use public funds to finance the national convention of their party. Read More: Melaye: PDP commends Kogi West constituents In a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP claimed that it was unbecoming that an administration that had been accusing others of corruption and publishing fabricated ‘looters’ lists’ would try to deceive Nigerians and divert public attention from their sleazes. “Our investigation revealed that many of the APC governors are being coerced under the orders of the Presidency and the leadership of the party to move in huge sums of money in cash into the APC coffers bulk of which have already been frittered away by corrupt leaders in the party and agents of the Presidency. “More saddening is that the money is being pulled from funds derived from federal bailouts and other monies budgeted for critical development projects in various communities, many of which have now been stalled, leaving the people deprived and impoverished,” the statement said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .