Real Madrid’s Spanish defender Nacho Fernandez direct the selfie stick as Real Madrid players celebrate winning the UEFA Champions League final football match between Liverpool and Real Madrid at the Olympic Stadium in Kiev, Ukraine on May 26, 2018. Real Madrid defeated Liverpool 3-1. Paul ELLIS / AFP Real Madrid was crowned champion of the UEFA Champions League once again after defeating English outfit, Liverpool in the final match held at the Olimpiyskiy National Sports Complex, Ukraine on May 26, 2018. Real Madrid now has a record 13 Champions League titles and three consecutively in the last three years. After its impressive displays, here are some of the things we might have learnt after the final. Real Madrid is truly the best club in world football 
The first and obvious thing is that Real Madrid is really the best team in the world. Winning the Champions League three times in a row can be considered as a mere dream for some clubs, but with the Los Blancos the dreams always come true. Real Madrid was the best team throughout the competition and it is yet to be knocked out of the competition for the past three years. This of course shows how it has become an unstoppable force and by far better than the rest. 2) Zidane deserves more accolades 
Zinedine Zidane inherited a Real Madrid team in turmoil, but he has since turned the side into the best team in world football. Real Madrid is very lucky to have him as a manger as he serves as an idol to most of his players both on and off the pitch. He is also able to demonstrate whatever he communicates to his players, as he was a world-beater back in his playing days. Winning the Champions League three times consecutively says a lot about him as a manager and for this he should be considered the best coach in world football. 3) Real Madrid will be reluctant to sell Gareth Bale now
After his stunning performance off the bench by scoring two goals, Real Madrid’s plan of offloading Gareth Bale in the summer will be put on hold.
After his performance in the final, he was asked about his future and he responded by saying that he needed to be playing week in, week out; something he truly deserves for someone of his quality. Bale was denied enough game time at the club and played second fiddle to the likes of Isco, Lucas Vazquez and Asensio for most part of the past season, which made him quite frustrated.
Madrid, however, will have to think twice before selling him after his splendid performance in the final game on Saturday. 4) Liverpool needs to strengthen its squad in the summer
Yes, Liverpool’s most productive player this season, Mo Salah got injured in a very important match. But who replaced him? Adam Lallana. One of the key reasons Liverpool lost the final was that they lacked game changers on the bench with Juventus bound Emre Can being the only threat on the Liverpool substitute’s bench despite being a holding midfielder. Liverpool needs to spend close to 150 million pounds this summer to improve on its key positions such as goalkeeping, defensive midfield and attacking positions. Liverpool is also prone to errors, which caused them the final. 5) Klopp needs to pray more often 
Jurgen Klopp is a world-class manager with the ability to improve his players and turning them into world stars. But despite these qualities, he has an abysmal record in major finals. Jurgen Klopp has now lost six of his seven major finals as a manager, including two DFB Pokal, two Champions League, one League and one UEFA Europa League). Klopp has won only one final, which is the DFB Pokal he achieved with Borussia Dortmund in 2012. This calls for serious concern and it is left to Klopp to find out why he always falls short at the critical moment.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .