L – R: Oluseyi Oyebisi, philanthropist and Executive Director of Nigeria Network of NGOs; Ife Adebayo: SA to the Vice President on Innovation and Entrepreneurship; Parminder Vir OBE – Chief Executive Officer, Tony Elumelu Foundation; Affiong Osuchukwu, Google’s Nigeria marketing manager and MI Abaga, rapper and CEO of Chocolate City Music Group at the unveiling of Google Africa Impact Challenge held in Lagos Google is to commit $2m worth of grant funding to nonprofit Organisations in Nigeria through its First African Impact challenge, which will see funding awarded to non-profit organizations that are innovating using technology to reach their goals. Affiong Osuchukwu , Google country marketing manager said, “This is the first time we are running a Google Impact Challenge in Africa. “Many African nonprofits are doing great work with real impact and we’re keen to shine a light on them, and give a financial boost to innovative projects and ideas. “We believe technology can help local and national organisations to better reach their goals and solve some of the continent’s most pressing challenges, and we are eager to back people who are using technology in new ways to make a positive difference in their communities. “We also want to highlight the healthy state of social enterprise in Nigeria today, and encourage non-profits to consider how technology can help them reach their goals,” Osuchukwu said. She also issued an open call to non-profit organisations in Nigeria to apply to receive their share of $2m in funding, adding that four non-profits in Nigeria stand to win $250 000 each while 8 runners up will each get $125 000. Osuchukwu explained that, “Winners will be decided by a panel of local judges and a public vote.
“public vote provides a chance for the people to decide which organisation gets an extra portion of funding to help them impact their community. “The winning non-profits will get cash as well as access to guidance, technical assistance and mentorship from Google, which they are free to take up should they so choose.” According to Google, the Impact Challenge Nigeria starts today and will close on the 4th of July and the final awards ceremony will be held during the week of 26 November.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .