 Muhammadu Buhari  Another old man, Alhaji Abubakar Atiku, 72, is bracing up to succeed GMB. He too, if elected, will end his second term when he is 81. I once told Atiku that since he already built a university after serving as Nigeria’s Vice-president, 1999-2007, what else is he looking for? Much more crucially is that Nigeria must respect rotational presidency for peace, progress, and stability. I advocate that we should forget whatever grudge we have against the octogenarian former President, General Olusegun Obasanjo (OBJ), and cooperate with him to help us coordinate refashioning of Nigeria. The country, as constituted, currently, is not sustainable. Unregulated survival of the fittest was not done even by African ancestors/ancestresses; hence, for instance in Yorubaland, they have a number of ruling houses, based on certain historical yardsticks. Nigeria has six zones. Southwest already served two terms in Aso Rock, in person of OBJ. South-south has also served eight years there in person of Goodluck Ebele Azikiwe Jonathan. GMB is serving the second term of the northwest. Why should the northwest be allowed a third term? That is the survival of the fittest I am talking about. For the north to balance the south in the new dispensation dating back to 1999, north-central should be supported to win in 2019, and after eight years, the southeast, then the northeast, before the southwest again. Why cannot Nigeria follow political order with a sense of discipline? De-politicisation of religion is also paramount, because national survival under Christian-Muslim onslaughts is impossible. Whatever is standing on the way of Nigeria’s progress should be resolved by the Third Force Movement. I don’t see any personal benefit to OBJ than earning a better name for himself and a better (sustainable) Nigeria for us. Innocent Ujah Idibia (aka 2Baba), in his early 40s, is “a singer, songwriter, record producer and entrepreneur,” from Jos, Plateau State, studied at Institute of Management Technology, Enugu, is a good example of someone from the north-central who can be Nigeria’s President in 2019. He had also tried to organise protests for some good cause. Nigerian youths shouldn’t afford to sit on the fence, looking at an old man perpetrating endless bloodshed and buying war planes. They should join the Third Force Movement to refashion Nigeria. History and posterity are watching. God and African ancestors/ancestresses are watching. Too many youths have been compromised. GMB is bribing some youths with N30, 000 monthly. Yes, it is something, but what? How many years will it take somebody earning N30, 000 monthly to buy the type of motorcycle that Yusuf was riding, or to feed monthly and still build a business?
Prof. Abioje wrote from University of Ilorin.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .