 Olusegun Obasanjo  Former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s Coalition for Nigeria Movement (CNM) has adopted African Democratic Congress (ADC) as the political platform to be deployed to unseat President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2019 general elections.Obasanjo on January 23, this year, had launched CNM with a scathing criticism of the current administration’s performance. At a press conference in Abeokuta, Ogun State, yesterday, he said: “The leadership of the movement, after detailed consultations, bearing in mind the orientation, policies and direction of the movement, agreed to adopt ADC.”He said: “In line with my clear position, which I have often repeated, the first phase of my job is done. I will not be a member of the party but pledge to keep alive and active on Nigerian and African issues and interests, and offer advice to any individual for the unity and development of the country. “The grassroots involvement, which CNM has advocated, must be maintained consistently. Inclusiveness must take care of over 25 million Nigerians living with disabilities, so that they make meaningful contributions to societal discourse and development.” On polls, he noted: “Primary elections should cease to be by delegates but by all card-carrying and financial members of the party within their constituencies.” He also advised the Senate to rid itself of corruption and make legislations relevant to the country’s economic and social reality. “It must make laws to amend the constitution to have one electoral body for all elections in the country,” he said. According to Obasanjo, “If we get the platform right, we will get the system right, particularly in running the government, which should be participatory and all- encompassing, not exclusive or discriminatory, but talent-hungry and talent- targeting for the good of the country.”He said: “Governance must not be myopic, restrictive and limited to circle of tribe, friends and blood relations, but transparent, open-minded and accommodating, seeking the best where the best can be found to achieve the best for the country. “In all situations, let us stand for good leadership, good governance, all-round development and enduring and authentic value within our culture. If we get it right, our demography will be an asset and not a liability or indeed a disaster.”	He warned: “No former political party, movement, social or cultural organisation should claim sole ownership of the renewed ADC. In name, it is relatively old, but in establishment, organisation, membership, policies, programmes, orientation and focus, it is new. If this is not understood, accepted by all, and made the foundation and pillar of the political party, it will be starting on a very shaky foundation and will soon fall.” He added: “I will advise others to join this political platform to usher in a new dawn for Nigeria, but I may not be able to advise anybody to join PDP or APC.”CNM’s National Coordinator, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola, said the decision to join forces with ADC and other like-minded political parties was taken to enthrone a new set of youthful, knowledgeable and goal-oriented leadership in the country. “Nigerians are a very resilient people. They are great optimists. They have invested so much trust and hope in our democratic infrastructure with very miserable returns so far. As I stated during the launch of the CNM, our country must not continue to be condemned to a four-year ritual of voting without results,” he said. “To get positive results, therefore, we must get the choice of leadership right. But the apple does not fall far from its tree. Only credible, positive platforms can produce positive results. A tree conceived and nurtured in lies can only bear imaginary fruits,” he added. Meanwhile, former Osun State governor, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola, has dumped the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Oyinlola communicated his decision to the leadership of the party through a letter received at the National Secretariat of the APC in Abuja yesterday.He has also resigned as chairman of the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC). The resignation letter dated May 9, 2018 addressed to President Muhammadu Buhari, has been submitted to the presidency. According to Oyinlola, the decision is to enable him pursue other political engagements outside the ruling party and to prevent him from engaging in any act that could “amount to disloyalty and conflict of interest”. He, therefore, thanked the President for the opportunity given him to serve, saying it is now time to chart a new course.ADC’s National Chairman, Chief Okey Nwosu, said the merger inspired by Obasanjo would ensure a new leadership that would be value-driven and a role model to Nigerians.He said the ADC is open to new engagements and alliances with more political parties, assuring that the party would use the 2019 polls to tackle the problem of failed leadership. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .