 Vector and Biola Alabi  The movie directed by Tosin Coker and produced by Tolu Olusoga, stars Seyi Shay, Vector Ogunmefun, Somkele Idhalama, Chioma Akpotha, Chinedu Ikedieze, Uche Jombo, Lala Akindoju, Bimbo Manuel, Wale Ojo, Shaffy Bello, Saidi Balogun, DJ Xclusive. Others are Toni Tones, Deyemi Okanlawon, Demola Adedoyin, Folu Storms, Sharon Ooja, Anne Icha, Akan Nnani, Dara Egerton Shyngle, Bollylomo and David Jones David. Lara and the Beat is about the young and beautiful Giwa sisters caught in the centre of a financial scandal with their parent’s media empire. The sisters are forced out of their privileged bubble, and must learn to build their own future and salvage their family’s past. The movie also tells a love story between Lara and Sal (a.ka The Beat), who helps find her voice and jumpstart her musical journey. Lara and the Beat is a movie about Loss, Love, Music…and a Dream. According to Biola Alabi, Executive Producer and MD of Biola Alabi Media, “Lara and the Beat is a reinforcement of our promise and goal to continue to tell authentic African stories to local and global audiences. We have worked with the best talents in the industry and engaged key partnerships and collaborations that have helped to deliver this outstanding movie. I am happy we are unveiling this trailer today and I look forward to everyone enjoying Lara and the Beat in the cinemas from July 20.” Themes explored in the movie, as seen in the trailer, include financial literacy, family values, sisterhood, friendship, music, fashion, culture and love.Lagos State Internal Revenue Service (LIRS), a major partner of the movie, believes that this handshake with the film industry is the best way to spread the vital message of civic duty and civic responsibilities. “We have partnered with the movie, ‘Lara and the Beat’, because we identify so much with the movie industry’s power to tell our authentic stories, and indeed, Lagos State has an inspiring story to tell. Lagos is at the centre of this film and with the way the state is showcased you can clearly see taxpayers’ money at work. Through this partnership we want people to see why it is important to comply with civic responsibilities, as well as recognize how discomforting it can be when one fails to perform their civic duties,” said LIRS Chairman, Mr. Ayodele Subair.Other partners for this movie include, FIRS, Fidelity, Close-Up, Knorr, M-Cash, Jumia, Kilimanjaro, Studio 24, Nuli, Distell, Dominos, Coldstone, and Keexs.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .