 Britain’s Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex (L) and US actress Meghan Markle (R) stand together at the altar in St George’s Chapel, Windsor Castle, in Windsor, on May 19, 2018 during their wedding ceremony. / AFP PHOTO / POOL / Dominic Lipinski  Fast-forward to like seven years after, and the same wedding, but with a man of royalty attracted the crème de la crème of society and watched by billions of television viewers all over the world. Martin Luther King Jr. said: “Let no man pull you low enough to hate him.” Many times, we suffer very degrading treatment from people, but unknown to many, there is something more degrading than the way you have been treated, which is to spend the rest of your life hating and loathing those people. If you really have to revenge for what others have done to you, then let your revenge be your massive success. Be so successful, that you make the people that left you feel like coming back. The wedding of Harry with Meghan would continue to arouse the mystery and unpredictability of love. Beyond the glitz, thrills, frills and paparazzi of the royal wedding are life lessons that are critical to destiny fulfillment. Don’t Allow Your Background To Put Your Back On The Ground
Where you are coming from is not what defines you, but rather where you are going in life. Your family background is not a limiting factor to anything. Do not let society define who you are. If the duchess of Sussex was to be selected on the premise of background, Meghan doesn’t fit in. Nothing about her fit the normal royal family brides. But she rose beyond her background to become an enviable figure. You Are Permitted To Start Small But Don’t Remain Small
As an actress, Meghan didn’t enter the showbiz world in a grand style; she actually started as a “briefcase girl,” one of the models who hold the suitcase full of cash, on the United States (US) version of “Deal or No Deal.” She was a Briefcase girl – deal or no deal. Do not despise the days of humble beginning. Her major breakthrough came when she starred as Rachel Zane, a paralegal-turned-lawyer on the US network legal drama, Suits.Start small, but don’t stay small. Dream and think big, stay focused, keep your eyes on the ball and aim for the stars. In Every Disappointment, There Is An Appointment
No matter the level of disappointment you have been through in life, always remember that you have a date with destiny! You may have to kiss a few frogs before you meet your Prince. Don’t define your life by what is not working. Always believe that you are full of possibilities. Hellen Keller said: “A happy life consists not in the absence, but in the mastery of hardships.” You Will Meet The Love Of Your Life When You Keep Doing What You Love Doing   
Many times in the process of keeping at what we love doing, we stumble on the love of our life. Meghan’s original passion to be a voice for the voiceless and speak up for vulnerable women and children was one of the major things that sparked Harry’s heart on fire to have her. She will be suspending every other thing (her lifestyle blog/website, called The Tig, and her acting career) as she flies around the world with the Prince in bringing smiles and purpose to the faces of vulnerable children and women. Age Is Not A Barrier
Love doesn’t care if someone is older or younger, but we certainly do. Age is just a number; love is everything.Harry and Meghan have many things in common, but their age isn’t one of them. At the age 36, Meghan got married to Harry of England, who is 34 years.Society holds a negative stigma regarding age differences, especially when the woman is older. When You Take Things For Granted, The Things You Are Granted Get Taken.
Sometimes, I wonder how her ex-husband (Trevor) will feel seeing the woman he lightly esteemed now becoming the Duchess of Sussex and the rave of the moment.Don’t take people’s love and care for granted; it will make you become a history in their life. Don’t Ever Give-Up On Love
You may need to leave an abusive relationship to get back your sanity and self-esteem, but never ever give-up on love. Take another go at love and strive to make it better. Don’t ever give up on love; you are lovable. The problem may not be the intensity of love, but the quality of people you love. Work hard to pick up the pieces of your life and start all over again. No Condition Is Permanent
Long before becoming a royal princess, Meghan was a regular teenage tourist at Buckingham Palace. A newly-surfaced photo shows the Duchess at 15, posing in front of the iconic royal residence during a trip in the summer of 1996, never knowing that it will one day become her traditional place of abode.Twenty-one years after that photo was taken, Markle is set to be a new member of the royal family. She is already moved out of her Toronto home and into London. Though she won’t be living at Buckingham Palace, she won’t be far off, as she and Harry will be shacking up together at Nottingham Cottage in Kensington Palace. Know Your Worth
There will always be someone who cannot see your worth. Don’t let it be you. When you start seeing your worth, you will find it harder to stay around people who don’t. Leave an abusive relationship and never make someone a priority when all you are to him/her is just an option. Always make yourself a priority. If God Be For You, Nothing Can Be Against You
You are not finished when people are finished with you; you are finished only when God finishes with you.All odds were against Meghan. First, she is half black, half white (Biracial). Secondly, she was married before at age 30 and divorced two years after. Thirdly, she is not royal or an aristocrat. When God is for you, every other thing will work for you. Be A Goal Digger And Not A Gold Digger
She became a popular and successful actress through dint of hardwork and perseverance. She became an advocate for gender equality and women empowerment. She was a voice for many and became a Global Ambassador for World Vision, Canada.Her relentless belief in gender equality singled her out as a United Nations (UN) advocate for women. She owns her own clothing line and also the founder and editor-in-chief of her own blog. She wasn’t just sitting and idling away her time, waiting for a prince; she was a princess in spirit and this automatically drew her to meeting her prince charming. Your Future Is Not Attached To Someone That Left
Everybody comes into your life for a reason and a season. To be truly happy in life, you must let go of what is gone. Be grateful for what remains. Stop looking for happiness in the same place you lost it; move on with your life. When people can walk away from you, let them walk. Your destiny is never attached to anybody that left. Beauty Begins The Moment You Decide To Be Yourself   
Leonardo Da Vinci said: “Simplicity is the ultimate sophistication.” One of the things that amaze me about Meghan’s wedding costume was her depth of simplicity. No eye lashes, little or no make-up and no excessive painting of the face. Even the jewellery was very simple.Our young ladies and women need to seriously learn that the greatest secret of a successful appearance is ‘be yourself.’ You alone determine how your story will end. 
Christine Mason Miller said: “At any given moment in life, you have the power to say, ‘This is not how the story is going to end.” Despite all the intimidating odds that stared Meghan in the face, she rose above them all to become the Duchess and the newest entrant into the royal family. If she can surmount the odds, then you can also. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .