 Okey Samuel Mbonu  Mbonu, the second aspirant from the Southeast zone made the declaration in Abuja at the weekend where he said the country’s leaders lack the capability to solve the challenges confronting the nation and emphasized the need for things to change desperately. While he kept mute on the political platform under which he intends to achieve his ambition Mbonu said, “My focus for now is on the people and how to provide a brand new leadership that is suitable for the 21st century.” He disclosed that several political parties have approached him to run as a Vice Vice-President on their platforms but he resisted because his ambition is to serve as the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. He said: “Fellow citizens you are looking at what a 21st century Nigeria leader with global credentials, international connections and authentic carrier in a rigorous environment and with no enemies in Nigeria looks like and that is me. “Many Nigerians today including some people who are aspiring to lead Nigeria are not aware of Nigeria’s global responsibilities as the leading black nation in the world, we need a Nigeria that is more secured, a Nigeria that has value and not strive to the rest of the world and that is the kind of leadership my campaign will provide.” Mbonu who said that his campaign has nothing to do with the leaders of the country insisted that the leaders have failed and not been able to do a great job, adding “Under my leadership I am sure we can build this nation into a model nation in Africa and one of the world’s great republic.” Describing zoning as a recipe for disaster, Mbonu said, “Let me also tell you that zoning breeds mediocrity, do not succumb to that level of mediocrity because zoning is a recipe for disaster, if zoning is such a good idea why don’t we zone people from each zone to fly the presidential plane, why don’t we say somebody from the south region will fly this year and another flies it next year. Our leaders are not going to do that because you will not enter an airplane when the person to fly it is not competent enough because it will crash and kill everyone, that is what zoning does. “Mediocrity will destroy our lives, we are all first class citizens of Nigeria, from Akwa Ibom to Kwara, from Anambra to Kastina, from Borno to Port Harcourt, from Lagos to Benue we are all first class citizens of Nigeria.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .