 Kabir Tanimu-Turaki  The endorsement, which took place yesterday at the party’s secretariat in Birnin Kebbi was aimed to support Tanimu’s presidential ambition as he formally declared to contest under the platform of the PDP.Speaking at the occasion, the State chairman, Alhaji Haruna Saidu said people of Kebbi and the party stakeholders have finally concluded to bring their candidate out ahead of 2019. According to him, “Kabir Tanimu Turaki has assisted a lot of youths. He is a transparent and honest leader and we believe he can run a better administration than the incumbent APC government.”In his response, Taminu-Turaki said his declaration was based on consultations from his constituency and stakeholders, who urged him to contest. He said after a call on him to contest for the presidency in 2019 “which I accepted, I urged my faithful to give me more chance to enable me meet with other stakeholders at Abuja. I am assuring you that I am going to contest for the president and do better than the present government.” Tanimu-Turaki, who further described the arm of the PDP that merged with the ruling party as an orphan in APC, promised to embrace the defected members back into the fold anytime they feel like coming back.He added that PDP has laid a good foundation for the economic growth but the ruling party truncated those achievements, saying, “The state of insecurity, economic recession and other crimes in the country since 2015 are condemnable. “APC government is not capable to rule this country, there is a lot of corruption in this administration than we witnessed when PDP was in government. Take a look at the bailout money given to governors to offset civil servants salaries; most of the governors did otherwise.” He said if elected president in 2019 “I will see to the challenges of insecurity, improve on the economy, reduce the unemployment of youths, provide social amenities to the electorate, and reduce poverty in the country.	” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .