Lagos music fans were treated to beautiful performances of Fuji and Juju music by frontline musicians including Sir Shina Peters, Adekunle Gold and Ibadan based Fuji Sensation Taye Currency from Friday night until the early hours of Saturday during the semifinal concert of Ariya Repete. To the delight of the excited fans at the National Stadium in Surulere, Adekunle Gold opened his performance at the concert with Orente before singing Ariwo Ko, following up with Friend Zone end ending his set with the widely popular Pick Up. There was a rare display of artistry and music rendition amidst heavy percussion known with Yoruba music, as thirty-two contestants took a turn to perform and show their musical talent and stagecraft within five minutes allocated to each contestant. The judges at the concert which included Champion Kunle Opio, Adebayo Faleke, Ace radio broadcaster, Alhaji Sikiru Agboola -SK Sensation, had a tough time selecting the finalist because of the plethora of talents on display. A total of ten musicians and six drummer groups were selected to progress to the final stage where they will be competing for the grand prize of two million naira. Sir Shina Peters who will turn sixty years old on his next birthday this May, was full of energy during his performance. SSP as he is fondly called sang from his popular Albums including Ace, Shinamania to the delight of his fans. His performance was followed by The Bonsue Fuji crooner and Adewale Ayuba The highlight of the night was the performance of the Ibadan based Fuji Sensation Taye Currency who gave a very good account of himself. Taye currency took time to eulogise Lagos and Ibadan cities. He also used the opportunity to sing about his relationship with Pasuma and Saheed Osupa. The concert ended with the thrilling performance from the King Saheed Osupa. Commenting on the event, Portfolio Manager, Mainstream Lager and Stout brands, Emmanuel Agu, said “We are deeply impressed by the performance of the artists so far and can’t wait to reveal the latest Juju and Fuji music greats to the world. That is what Ariya Repete is all about: developing and promoting indigenous Yoruba music, artistry and drumming talent, and Nigerian Breweries is glad to be leading the charge in that regard.” The event was a reunion of a sort as musicians Including Admiral Dele Abiodun, Segun Adewale, Champion Kunle Opio, Wale Thompson, Alhaji Kabiru Akanni popularly known as Baby Barrister. Other guests at the event include Sulaiman Ajobiewe and Dele Fagboyo, the anchor of Aajirebi TV show. The grand finale of Ariya Repete 2018 is scheduled to hold at Trans Amusement Park, Ibadan, the Oyo State capital on May 11, 2017 where the winners in the different categories will win a cash prize of 2 million naira each for Juju and Fuji categories while the winner of the drumming category goes home with N1m. Ariya Repete, an initiative of Goldberg, from the stables of Nigerian Breweries Plc is an expanded music talent hunt platform that seeks to promote and develop indigenous Yoruba music that includes Fuji and Juju music genres. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .