Senator Obaisi Ovie Omo-Agege. PHOTO: Asaba Metro Representative of Delta Central senatorial district, Ovie Omo-Agege, has said nobody could stop him from taking his seat during proceedings at the Senate today. Omo-Agege, who fielded questions from journalists at the National Secretariat of the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday in Abuja, expressed optimism that renewed moves by the Senate to sustain the 90-day suspension on him would fail. Referring to the recent judgment by an Abuja Federal high Court presided over by justice Nnamdi Dimgba, which nullified his suspension, he insisted that the order took effect from last Thursday when the decision was taken. He argued that moves by the Senate via its counsel, Mahmud Magaji, to secure a stay of execution of the order would fail since it was illegal and unconstitutional. “He who must come to equity must go with clean hands. Their hands are not clean and that was why we got the declaratory order. There is no reason why I should not show up tomorrow (today). Most likely than not, I will be in the Senate tomorrow (today). The Abubakar Bukola Saraki-led Senate had on April 12, 2018, suspended Omo-Agege for 90 legislative days for taking the Senate to court over the amendment to the Electoral Act 2010, which sought to reorganise elections sequence in the country. Omo-Agege also explained why he joined key stakeholders of the APC to ensure that the Chairman of the Party Congress Committee in Delta State, Sani Dododo duly submitted the results of the local council congresses to the John Odigie-Oyegun led national working committee (NWC). He said the local council congress was peaceful and transparent, adding that the decision was aimed at averting the unsavory experience in Asaba whereby two members of the seven member Dododo-led Committee bolted away with 100 results materials to the surprise of the state party stakeholders. He said there was the need to take precautionary measures since such incidence occur ‘right before their eyes’ in his home state of Delta. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .