  Ebri, a former governor of Cross River, made the appeal in a statement on Thursday in Abuja. Members of the bloc, who had joined APC from Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2014, had on Wednesday alleged neglect and persecution against them in APC, and gave the party seven days to address the concerns. But, Ebri told the angry members to tarry as his chairmanship of the party, if elected, would usher in a new dawn to APC. According to him, this is not the time to give threat or ultimatum but time to come together and elect a leader that will salvage the party. He said that as former governor and former national chairman of a political party, he understood human and resource management, which he was willing to deploy in administering APC. Read More: APC ward Congresses: Okorocha, Imo APC leaders meet Osinbajo The chairmanship aspirant said that APC was in dire need of leaders who would unite the party and not those who would cause more division in the party. “l want to appeal to the members of the nPDP in APC to tarry a while as a new dawn is about to come to the party. “I have seen the concerns and grievances as those reasons l am offering self for service as APC national chairman. “I want to assist to build a party that would be all-inclusive, where the existing dichotomy of members wouldn’t be. The party has stayed long on the verge that some members are CPC, ACN, ANPP, nPDP, etc. “As one, who was governor in 1992 and former national chairman of a political party, l have the temperament to lead APC and assist the President, Muhammadu Buhari, to deliver his promises and the APC manifesto to Nigerians. “I’m using this opportunity to call on party chieftains, stalwarts, leaders and members to consider a man who has no bagage or controversies around him as their national chairman,” he said. Meanwhile, the Northern APC Youths Movement and the APC Grassroots for Change have thrown their weight behind the former governor of Cross River in the party’s national chairmanship race. The groups said that Ebri was more qualified to lead the party. According to them, the President and other leaders of APC should see Ebri as a better national chairman to work with than any other aspirant.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .