 (FILES) This file photo taken on April 1, 2017 shows Southampton’s French manager Claude Puel watching from the touchline during the English Premier League football match between Southampton and Bournemouth at St Mary’s Stadium in Southampton, southern England. Claude Puel was sacked as Southampton manager on June 14, 2017, after just one season in charge, the English Premier Club announced. Puel, 55, took Southampton to a respectable eighth-place finish in the table and to the League Cup final where they were defeated by Manchester United. Adrian DENNIS / AFP  Puel who tasted success early in his coaching career when he led Monaco to the 2000 French Ligue 1 title  has seen his position come under fierce scrutiny from fans with just five wins in their last 20. However, he will still be only the second coach of The Foxes this century to guide them to a top 10 Premier League finish  Italian Claudio Ranieri’s title win being the other one. “We will see if it is possible or not but I have a good feeling because it is the most important thing for the club,” said the 56-year-old, whose side finish their campaign against Tottenham Hotspur on Sunday. “I didn’t come here just for some games and to try to save the club. I want the project, I want to work to develop the play and the squad. “For example, we have finished ninth or maybe eighth but we have finished in the top 10 only two times for 18 years.” Puel, who received the backing of Thai owners chairman Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha and his son Top after a meeting earlier this week, said it was crucial to give a decent run to the manager to allow the club to progress on the pitch. “This is a fact. This club needs consistency and to develop something strong, with solidity and strength,” he said. “This needs time and we need also to work hard in the summer in the transfer window. “We need to improve this team and develop some good players also. We will see the results next season. “It is important to understand this and to have a good consistency in our work during the difficulties.”A manager needs to keep the way in all conditions.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .