Atletico Madrid’s Spanish forward Fernando Torres waves at fans during a tribute at the end of the Spanish league football match between Club Atletico de Madrid and SD Eibar at the Wanda Metropolitano stadium in Madrid on May 20, 2018.<br />Torres scored twice in what was his final match for Atletico Madrid. / AFP PHOTO / GABRIEL BOUYS After playing his final La Liga for his boyhood club against Eibar, Fernando Torres will play his final game for Atletico de Madrid at the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium he Nigerian Super Eagles B team. Spanish LaLiga giants Atletico de Madrid have confirmed that the Spanish forward alongside a number of stars will play in their end of season friendly match against the Nigeria on Tuesday May 22nd. The Europa League champions have released a 20-man squad for the encounter, including head coach Diego Simeone, the list shows the international stars who are due to participate at the 2018 FIFA World Cup have been excluded from the encounter, as they are due to link up with their national teams in order to begin World Cup preparations. The Super Eagles have invited a mix of Nigeria Professional Football League stars alongside players playing abroad. Arsenal’s Kelechi Nwakali and his brother Chidiebere Nwakali, who is signed to Manchester City, are part of the list of invited players by Coach Salisu Yusuf. Los Colchoneros’ 20-man squad list includes top names like first choice keeper, Jan Oblak, veteran striker, Fernando Torres, Ghanaian star footballer, Thomas Partey, and club captain, Gabi Fernandez, in what promises to be a truly pulsating encounter. The friendly comes less than week after Barcelona took on South Africa’s Mamelodi Sundowns at the FNB stadium in South Africa. The Super Eagles match against Atletico is part of the LaLigaWorld Project which organises friendly matches involving LaLiga teams all over the World. The match will be broadcast by SuperSport all over Africa, as well as internationally.  Goalkeeper – Jan Oblak, Axel Werner Defender – Juanfran, Sergio González, Francisco Montero, Rafael Muñoz, Andrés Solano Midfielder – Gabi Fernández, Ángel Correa, Víctor ‘Vitolo’ Pérez, Thomas Partey, Roberto Olabe, Juan Aguero Núñez, Antonio Moya, Mikel Carro, Joaquín Muñoz Forward –  Fernando Torres, Kevin Gameiro, Borja Garces To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .