 Alex Iwobi  The arrival of Super Eagles and Arsenal striker, Alex Iwobi sparked huge jubilation at Uyo airport yesterday afternoon.Iwobi was among the early arrivals in the Eagles camp in preparation for May 28 international friendly match between Nigeria and DR Congo in Port Harcourt.The Super Eagles team B will today tackle Atletico Madrid, who are visiting Africa for the first time. The match is sponsored by MultiChioce to mark the maiden GOtv MAX Cup.
 
As soon as Iwobi stepped out of the aircraft, which brought him and some journalists from Lagos, security personnel and passengers at Uyo airport abandoned their duty posts in their bid to catch a glimpse of the striker. Some were begging to take photographs with him.But one of the visiting journalists, a photographer, ran into trouble as he was rough handled by one overzealous security operative for taking photographs of Iwobi at the airport. 
 
The journalist was whisked into a room where he was ordered to delete all photographs he took inside the airport. The attitude of security personnel at the Uyo airport came as a big surprise to many visitors, particularly sports journalists, who came from across the country to cover the Super Eagles versus Atletico Madrid encounter. The Super Eagles are lodged at the Ibom Meridian Hotel Camp.Iwobi joined vice-captain Ogenyi Onazi, Ikechukwu Ezenwa, Ola Aina and Bursaspor of Turkey defender William Troost-Ekong as early arrivals.The Arsenal star, who was accompanied by his father, Chuka, was immediately driven off after completing airport formalities. The Super Eagles had their first feel of the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium turf at 5.00 p.m.According to team coordinator, Patrick Pascal, Coach Gernot Rohr and other members of the technical crew are already present in Uyo and itching to get on with the team’s training programme. The Super Eagles are expected to trade tackles with the Leopards of Congo DR next Monday in Port Harcourt before proceeding to London where they will play the Three Lions of England at the Wembley Stadium on June 2.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .