 Muda Yusuf, LCCI Boss.  According to the chamber, some of the big changes expected at this year’s fair border on automation of booking of space and registration for participation, review of exhibitors’ rules, especially as it relates to environmental activities, improved sectorisation of exhibition area and upgrade of facilities and security arrangement. Indeed, the chamber stated that the fair will not only promote trade, but also aid inflow of investments in the country through partnerships among exhibitors. Specifically, the Organisers of the 2018 Lagos International Trade Fair (LITF), LCCI announced that this year’s fair, scheduled to hold from Friday 2nd November to Sunday 11th November, 2018 at the Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS) in Lagos, is aimed at supporting Nigeria’s quest to achieve a virile industrialised economy by providing a platform for the nation’s industrial, manufacturing, agriculture, solid minerals and service sectors. LCCI President, Babatunde Ruwase explained that the changes were informed by the need to address concerns of stakeholders about the hitches of the past. The Chairman, Trade Promotion Board, LCCI, Gabriel Idahosa said this year’s fair, seeks to connect businesses and create value for stakeholders and it is apt and timely in the face of the current economic realities which underscores the need for diversification and inter-sectoral synergy. Idahosa, while unveiling details of the fair yesterday, said the exhibition, like others in the time past, will enjoy foreign participation, while efforts have been made to ensure investment opportunities are created in a bid to deepen bilateral ties. “This year, exhibitors can now sit in the comfort of their offices, register, pay and book for a space of their choice. The process has been designed to be seamless and friendly. On noise pollution, the use of music gadgets in exhibitors’ stands will not be allowed. Our Central Public Address system will be made available to disseminate information and light music to make the environment welcoming”, he added. He also called on all industry players to support the efforts of the government in revamping and stabilising the economy through the injection of capital into the economy to drive investments in agriculture, manufacturing, trade, services and technology. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .