  Specifically, the PDP yesterday challenged Prof. Osinbajo to tell Nigerians what he knew about the alleged corrupt practices since the agencies fall directly under his supervision. It also expressed dismay that having benefitted from election that was sponsored with money which sources have been allegedly linked to corruption, the Vice President could still accuse other people of corruption. The PDP in a statement issued by its national publicity secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said that "Nigerians, particularly, the younger generation, are thoroughly disappointed in Vice President Yemi Osinbajo for allowing himself to be used as the poster boy for diversion of public attention from the impunity and corruption that saturate the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government" It further wondered why  "Osinbajo, in his ‘sanctimony’, has been silent on the exposed corruption under the Buhari-led administration, including the leaked memo detailing N9 trillion corrupt oil contracts at the NNPC, exposed sleazes in oil subsidy deals, diversion of Internally Displaces Persons (IDP) intervention funds, which includes the probe of a misappropriated N18bn in National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA)" under his direct purview as well as other looting in government agencies such as the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) among others. Read More: Stop blame game, get involved in politics, speakers urge Nigerians But, reacting to the development, the Presidency yesterday shrugged the allegations saying it is an attempt by the opposition "to befuddle the issues." It said Nigerians know who to trust and who to believe, adding any attempt to confuse the citizens will amount to a wasted effort. Responding to the sundry allegations, Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande warmed that "any attempt to try to confuse Nigerians is a wasted effort, because Nigerians know exactly who to trust and who to believe. It is a shame that the PDP thinks they can fool Nigerians, it is not going to happen. "Nigerians cannot be fooled by the calculated attempt to befuddle the issues, deny and deflect the weighty allegations and the hard facts of grand corruptions and crass stealing that went on under the past administration." Akande said the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government has already presented credible and unassailable information and facts regarding the grand corruption that took place under the previous administration. His words: "We have presented credible and unassailable information and facts regarding the grand corruption that has taken place under the previous administration. We also see the attempt to raise insinuations and innuendos and unsubstantiated claims about the administration.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .