(FILES) In this file photo taken on February 17, 2018 Paris Saint-Germain’s Brazilian forward Neymar Jr looks on during the French Ligue 1 football match between Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) and Strasbourg at The Parc des Princes in Paris. On February 28, 2018 Paris Saint-Germain said Brazilian superstar Neymar, the world’s most expensive footballer, will undergo surgery on his foot and ankle injury in Brazil at the end of the week. / AFP PHOTO / CHRISTOPHE ARCHAMBAULT Brazil star Neymar has paved the way for a potentially early departure from Paris Saint-Germain by declaring he “really wants to” work under Manchester City coach Pep Guardiola. Speculation that Neymar could leave PSG only a year after signing a record-setting 222 million euro ($264 million) deal with the French league giants has been rife. And the 26-year-old superstar, currently in Brazil training with the national team prior to the World Cup, has done little to quash the rumours. Although linked with a move to European champions Real Madrid, Neymar told ESPN Brasil he wanted to experience working alongside Guardiola having missed the opportunity when he arrived at previous club Barcelona a year after the Spanish coach’s departure. “I’ve always wanted to work with Guardiola. He’s different. I arrived (in Barcelona) a year after he left,” said Neymar, who was interviewed for the programme by fellow compatriot and ex-Fenerbahce midfielder Alex. “I really want to work with him.” Guardiola quit Barcelona in 2012 after steering the club to 14 trophies in four seasons. Neymar arrived a year later and went on to spend four seasons at the Camp Nou, before completing his record-setting move to the French capital. Although PSG secured a French domestic treble of league, Cup and League Cup last season, Neymar missed the latter third due to injury. Having suffered a foot injury in February, Neymar underwent surgery in Brazil. However rumours suggest he is keen to leave Paris, with a preference to return to Barcelona’s arch rivals Real Madrid. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .