The Minister of Solid Minerals Development, Kayode Fayemi The All Progressives Congress (APC), Ekiti State chapter has petitioned the Inspector General of Police (IGP) and Director General, Directorate of State Services (DSS), over the wanton destruction of a campaign billboard of its governorship candidate, Dr Kayode Fayemi allegedly on the orders of Governor Ayodele Fayose. Suspected supporters of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Wednesday in Oye Ekiti, headquarters of Oye local council, descended on a huge campaign billboard of Fayemi at St Augustine Secondary School and destroyed it, while being cheered by others. The APC in the petition dated May 23rd, 2018, accused Fayose of being the mastermind of the attack and called for immediate arrest and prosecution of those involved in the act. The petition signed by State Secretary, Paul Omotosho, alleged that APC and its supporters had been under various forms of attacks since Fayose became governor of the state on October 16, 2014. It said Wednesday’s attack was carried out by senior political leaders of the council administration adding, “Our party members in Oye Ekiti who witnessed the incident yesterday informed us that Fayose who led the campaign team of his deputy and the gubernatorial candidate of the PDP, Prof Olusola Eleka to the council, directed the politicians to destroy Fayemi’s billboard which was erected close to the junction towards Isan. “The PDP officials promptly carried out the governor’s directive. It is unfortunate that this barbaric act was carried out in the presence of policemen who could not make any arrest. “We wish to inform you that we have written several petitions to your office since 2014 till now about various acts of violence against our members before, during and after elections. It is the character of Governor Fayose to destroy billboards of opposition candidates, sponsor attacks on them and drive many of them out of town so that he would have a field day on Election Day. This is what he has started again. “If this act of violence is not nipped in the bud, it can lead to a breakdown of law and order in the state.” The video clips showing the destruction of the billboard, which is currently trending on social media, was also attached to the petition. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .