 BBNaija Season 3 winner, Miracle Igbokwe, with other housemates at the party  The show kicked off with hypeman Dotun introducing foremost dancer, Kaffy and her crew, who passionately set tone for all the awesomeness and epic mixes that were to follow. The much-hyped event attracted a large turnout of young fun loving youths, who came out in their numbers to turn up with the DJ Ambassadors. First of its kind, the event was the first time four DJs would headline a show all by themselves in Nigeria. The show featured turntable magic, special guest appearance and performances, and crazy giveaways, as it was out of the world party. The hall was set in a lush ambience with lights everywhere and a brain bursting stage setting with screens and cameras all over the place (like all those often seen in akata concerts).DJ Obi was the first to scratch the discs on the turntable, with back-to-back drop of hits after hits that got the audience pumped and ready for more. His performance also featured the legendary DJ Jimmy Jatt, Lynxx, DJ ECool and DJ Hosea, with all paying tribute to the recently deceased European DJ and producer Avicii. Up next was DJ Cuppy, who did not drop the ball, but steered the fans to another height entertainment with her uniquely mixed vibes and hits. She made a colorful entrance with a drum line theme and cheerleaders, giving guests western vibes before centering the stage to drop what can be described as Shaku Shaku dance. Just when the audience thought she was done thrilling, she turned up the excitement with Tekno as they performed Greenlight. There was temporal stoppage of music to usher in the Big Brother Naija (BBNaija) Season 3 contestants on the stage. At the mention of their favourite housemates, who came on stage one after another, the crowd went frenzy. Hypeman Dotun, playing the devil’s advocate on the night, asked some incriminating questions that got Big Brother Naija season 3 second runner-up, Tobi to declare that he might be in love with fourth place winner Alex, even as Miracle has feelings for Nina. Alex got persuaded to burst some moves, something she is well known for doing while she was in the Big Brother house.  Winner of the show, Miracle Igbokwe was presented a cash prize of one million naira by Pepsi as a prize for winning one of the challenges in the house. The return of music saw the X-factor, DJ Xclusive come on stage, and he kept dropping club banger after banger, bringing back nostalgic memories and throwbacks, whilst taking the audience through the different eras of dance moves that made them go gaga. Then came Legbegbe crooner, Mr. Real, who hop on stage and gave life to the audience with his street anthem Shaku Shaku hit. Though so mant legs were tired after dancing for about four hours, with Daddy Yo crooner, Wizkid, Tiwa Savage, and Seyi Shey in their usual manner brought life to the audience with their scintillating tunes and amazing performances. In between the performances there were giveaways, as the show organisers, Pepsi in a bid to show appreciation, gave out two iPhone Xs and two handbags containing iPhone Xs and other gift items to four lucky winners. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .