 Governor Ambode<br />Photo: Twitter/AkinwunmiAmbode  25 beneficiaries of the LSETF were among the over 100 leading vendors that participated at the 2018 edition of the yearly Simply Nigerian Fair (SNF) to showcase their various products and services. The beneficiaries, who affirmed that the grants had positively affected their businesses, also commended the support from the state government to attend fairs and exhibitions as it helps to encourage and grow their businesses. Sharing their experiences, Director, Dej Fashion Company, an expressive retail fashion brand that specializes in manufacturing and distribution of exquisite fashion items, Ayodeji Ijaware, said his attendance at the fair through the support of the LSETF has given his business the needed positive push. According to Ijaware, “I understand vendors were required to pay a substantial fee to showcase their products, but I paid nothing to come here all thanks to LSETF. That alone is a necessary incentive we receive as beneficiaries of the loan programme. The support we get to attend fairs and exhibitions is very commendable as it helps to encourage and grow our businesses.” Similarly, the founder of Happy Coffee Nigeria, Princess Adeyinka Tekenah noted that the fair handed her the opportunity to further drive the idea of drinking Nigerian grown coffee to visitors. “Our attendance at the fair has been awesome for us and it is always a great opportunity for us to showcase what we do as a brand which is promote Nigerian locally grown coffee. The LSETF since we started our business is one of our strongest supporters by giving us a loan, which had a significant impact on the business. “Hopefully with the LSETF support, we would be able revitalise our coffee farms from the South West Nigeria to places like Taraba, Jos and the rest of them in five to ten year,” she added. The entrepreneurs were selected based on their related expertise and play in the sectors within the following niche: fresh produce, plants and flower, food and beverage, fashion and footwear, hair and body and home and lifestyle. The fair afforded the beneficiaries the opportunity to further push their products to the consumers as well as network with other vendors all in one spot.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .