Children are more often than not overlooked when it comes to style. Thankfully, designers have found ways to cater to the sartorial needs and choices of children. Also, celebrity children and young royals continue to set children’s fashion trends all over the world. We have carefully selected some unique styles for kids this year. Perhaps you can be inspired by these trends. Soft pastel colours and natural tones are in season for kids. Choose clothes with soothing, neutral colours like cream, peach baby pink, pale blue, mustard, beige and mauve. Add a pop of colour to their clothes with stylish applique and prints in bright colours. Imade Adeleke. Photo: Instagram. Sofia Okoli in a pretty lilac tulle dress. Photo: Instagram Tenola Womadi in a baby pink outfit. Photo: Instagram Tito killing it in beige dungarees. Photo: Instagram Think classic, elegant, well-crafted pieces that work well for special occasions. Plunge your baby girl into a fairy tale with a princess dress or make your son look princely in a sophisticated tux. Marion in a Stitchesbymo suit. Photo: Instagram Naomi Peller in a princess dress. Photo: Instagram Sofia Okoli looking princessy. Photo: Instagram Print clothes are a special way to stand out. Make that leftover Ankara material you have into a shirt or a blazer jacket for your child or a pretty little dress with lovely floral prints. King Ayo Balogun in a print blazer by Touredesigns. Photo: Instagram Go traditional. Photo: Pinterest Boiled and bleached denim is suitable for kids of all ages. From jeans to denim jackets, this trend is timeless. Rock denim on denim or soften the look with pastel-coloured clothes. Denim power. Photo: Pinterest Imade Adeleke. Photo: Instagram Purity Okojie in denim dungarees. Photo: Hot Gist Naija No more boring tops and tees. Let your kids make a statement with their clothes. Use catchy phrases, bold paintings of their favourite superhero, a drawing of an animal, plant graphics or geometric motifs. Graphic tee. Photo: Pinterest King Ayo Balogun in Cakexculture tee and denim trousers. Photo: Instagram