  The governor said he has been a supporter of the cause of the youths and "I have made this known by supporting a 39 year old Ogunsakin for the deputy governor. He is a young banker and administrator and best man for the job." Fayose stated this at a rally organized by the Ekiti Muslim community in appreciation of the Governor  for endorsing a Muslim as Deputy Governorship candidate of PDP in Ado Ekiti yesterday. He said, " I have prayed about it and asked from God, and He confirmed Ogunsakin, just as He gave me Prof Eleka. I urge you to support him.
Any system that does not take the youth into consideration will collapse. "I have been a supporter of the cause of the youths and I have made this known by supporting a 39 year old Ogunsakin for the deputy governor. He is a young banker and administrator and best man for the job." In his remark, Ogunsakin boasted that the Muslim community in the state would embarrass the All Progressive Congress (APC) with overwhelming votes in gratitude to the PDP for choosing him, a Muslim, as the running mate to the governorship candidate of the party, Professor Olusola Kolapo Eleka. Read More: Adeyeye cursed me over Ekiti PDP governorship primaries, says Fayose Ogunsakin said: "I am happy to be here in appreciation to Almighty Allah, and to our leader, Governor Ayo Fayose, you have set me on the right path and empowered me with leadership. I pledge before all of you that l will never disappoint you. You have been a great leader, wonderful father and great mentor.
I appreciate you on behalf of the young people of Ekiti State and Nigerians at large. "We have been agitating that we are not too young to run and today, you have made our dreams come true. We are very grateful to you sir. We are assuring you that we are not lazy,.like somebody said. " We will defer to you, we will not be arrogant and as God lives, we will appreciate you come July 14 , we will embarrass the APC with votes," he said. Also speaking at the rally, which was well attended by hundreds of Muslims in the state, Chief Imam of Ekiti State, and grand Imam of South West, Delta and Edo, Sheik Kamiu Kewulere Bello, said: "We asked for four things from the governor and he has done three things now. This third he did is so surprising. "We had told  him that since he already has supported a Christian Governorship candidate, we wanted a deputy and we have been expecting. We had said that any party that fails to carry one of us as a deputy governor, we will not support. But Governor Fayose has chosen our son, Abdulkazeem. Any other party that called us we will answer them, we are their fathers. We are not politicians. Deputy Governor Prof Olusola Eleka,  who described  Governor Fayose as  grand commander of grassroot politics and lover of youths, said: "I am sure the grand imam is happy because one of his desires is today fulfilled. " I want to appreciate you our Governor for allowing God's will to prevail, some leaders prefer their own will, but governor Fayose has allowed the will of God. "Anyone who allows Gods will to prevail will suceed. I am assuring the governor, and all the people that I and my deputy will be truthful, we will not disappoint you and we will perform better than our leader, Governor Fayose." To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .