 A cross section of visitors at the Food & Drink Fair in Lagos  The event, which started on Sunday, April 29 till Tuesday, May 1, had no dull moment; from the in-house radio station to the busy pop-up stores; the Masterclasses; the farmer’s market; outdoor grills; the GTBank Experience Centre and the children play area, it was all fun. The audience was thoroughly engaged with various activities and it can be categorised as a community of the foodie and the drink connoisseurs. There were opportunities to try something new for those who loved tasting; there were various veggies that people have heard the names before the fair but they have not been able to access; well packaged palm oil amongst many other food items were on display for sale. There were hundreds of processed and raw food outlets and there were thousands of buyers. The brand gave Nigerians the gastronomic experience that would remain unparalleled for the rest of the year. Worthy of note about the fair were the various masterclasses that drew renowned local and international Chefs to engage with interested Nigerians who was to improve on their culinary skills. Chefs such as Chef Imoteda co-owner of Eko Street Eat and host of two popular TV shows, Urban Kitchen and Heels in the Kitchen, tutored people on The Art of plating with Chef Imoteda, while British Chef, bestselling author and TV personality, Lorraine Pascale, shared her mastery of baking with participants. Other headliner chefs at the 2018 edition of the fair include, Sunny Anderson, who began hosting How’d that get on my Plate. She taught intending chefs on Home Cooking Made Easy with Sunny. The first winner of The Great British Bake Off, Edd Kimber, has gone on to become the resident chef on The Alan Titchmarsh show, after which he started his own show, Edd and John’s Christmas Bakes, and now regularly appears on a host of other programmes, such as Sunday Brunch, The Wright Stuff, Channel 5 News, BBC Breakfast, and Market Kitchen, he gave an insight into Pastry and Sweet Things with Edd Kimber. There was a special catch them young session for children, Chef Muse, Muneera Tahir, gave his all, while teaching these young participants of the Masterclass themed, So You Think You can Cook. The special two sessions aimed at grooming the chefs of the future. She was the Head Chef of L’Italiano Restaurant where she worked until September of 2017. Thereafter she returned to her Alma Mater, Red Dish Chronicles (RDC) as a Chef Instructor. Since returning to RDC, Chef Muse has been training budding chefs and continues to undertake several exciting culinary projects in her capacity as an Executive Sous Chef. Chef Siba, the Food Network star and award winning chef, Sibahle Mtongana, facilitated a masterclass on how to succeed as an African chef on the global stage. Sibahle won 3 international awards at the Gourmand World Cookbook Awards in China and was recognized by US Film and Television Awards for her cooking show Siba’s Table. She is also passionate about ending global hunger and actively participates in global campaigns such as Rise against Hunger for which she is a Global Impact Ambassador. Happy Hour with Tony was taken by the multiple award winning mixologist, Tony Conigliaro, shared professional tips on how to become a master in mixology Known for his unique perspective on the art of cocktail making. A Nigerian Internationally acclaimed Chef Patron of La Petite Maison, London Mayfair, Raphael Duntoye, has expanded the award-winning restaurant to 5 other major metropolitan cities across the world; he spoke on The Making of a Chef. Other chefs that facilitated the masterclasses include Elizabeth Solaru, Chef Benedict Okuzu of the Chef Benedict Culinary Experience and Chef Scott Wintson, who provided support and advice for small food businesses. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .