Drugs Counterfeit drugs are a widespread problem in Nigeria. They are a dangerous and sometimes deadly trick for quick profits for the merchants of death. With global revenue of $200 billion from fake and counterfeit drugs, there is very attractive incentive to continue in merchandizing deaths. Authorities fear that with the entrance of drug barons into fake drugs business, it has become more sophisticated, more globalised and more militarized. It is also estimated that about $12 billion is lost in wages and salaries due to counterfeit/substandard medicines since failed treatment leads to more days out of work. Like other counterfeits, they look like real products. But they are bad copies of the original. At best, they have little or no medicinal value; at worst they are dangerous. It is scary, not knowing what was going on until one is a victim of fake drugs. Fake drugs may be contaminated or contain the wrong or no active ingredients. They could have the right active ingredient but at the wrong dose. Counterfeit drugs are illegal and are harmful to health. Enlisting technology in the war against fake and counterfeit medicines will be a great initiative that will safeguard precious lives. This is because staying ahead of fake drug merchants is better than preventing the proliferation of counterfeit drugs all over the country. Nigeria and indeed, National Agency for Food, Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC) must enlist cutting-edge tool that will help dislodge the deadly traders in fake drugs. In this knowledge age, the new weapon to fight back against counterfeiting is technology. For instance- the uFaker which is a mobile app that opens communication between brand owners and law enforcement, private investigators and even lawyers. Brand owners can report fraudulent activity and help investigators track counterfeit activity. Also manufacturers must begin to teach consumers about fraudulent products and encourages readers to report and refute purchase of such items. Education and awareness are the keys to stemming the evil trade.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .