It’s amazing that we have finally stepped out of our parents shadows of being engineers, doctors and lawyers, and created our chiliad pathways. The creative scene in Nigeria, particularly in Lagos has grown incessantly, with a wealth of photographers, art directors, graphic designers, creative directors/consultants, you name it! It is really something to behold. However, In this era of diversification and falsification, social media has its aye and nay. You can spend hours scrolling through your social media timeline and not see any talented creative rather just the ones who are hyped because of the number of followers they have. All these do nothing but bung up your mind. If you are keen on who to follow your timeline can be a spur and help you differentiate the wheat from the weed or the great from the hyped. More often than not the low key creatives with less amount of followers are the ones that are the actual gems of creativity and know how to get the job done. Here are a couple of my personal favourite creatives. Some I’ve worked with and others I have been fangirling from a distance and for a while now. They are the right ones for the job. Thank us later Popularly known as “bola the African” on the mainstream, and for his reputation as a Visual Artist curating some of the most engaging images of brands and popular artistes showcased amongst Nigeria’s creative scene on social media. Bola sees himself as a multipotentiality and a creative entrepreneur. while his working on a creative project he is also working on innovating other industries,
He loves to futz around, therefore, throws all his creativity into whatever projects he works on. Definitely, one to watch out for. @bolatheafrican. Click through the gallery for a couple of his works. Niyi Okeowo is a fast-rising portrait photographer who lives and works in Lagos. Developing the art of the performative self-portrait, Niyi Okeowo is a breathtaking portrait photographer and a diverse visual artist. Niyi has a thing for lights and colours, his mishmash for art, graphics and photography is always a visual delight. If you’ve ever picked up an issue of Guardian Life magazine on a Sunday, there is a high probability you are staring at a cover shot by Niyi Okeowo. Niyi constantly portrays creativity and uniqueness in all his projects and this continues to leave us in awe. @helloniyiokeowostdio. Click through the gallery for a couple of his works. Nefe refers to himself as a creative entrepreneur and we couldn’t have said it better ourselves. Nefe specializes in graphic designing and customization he has worked with more people than places and brands. You probably haven’t heard of him because he is one of those low key creatives who are actually busy creating.
Probably one of the most noteworthy things about Nefe is his philanthropic heart being the CEO of ”supporting her prime campaign” an NGO which aims at educating girls on menstrual hygiene and also providing sanitary pads to girls who cannot afford it (because of the ridiculous increase in the price) all these has made him explore themes like gender inequality and poverty. @o21_designs. Click through the gallery for a couple of his works. Chisom is one of the few ‘glorified’ Instagram stars that actually lives up to the hype. He is one of those well-rounded creatives that offer the full package.
Photographer. Stylist. Art director. Creative director. This guy does it all.
What’s amazing about Chisom is he is a fresh graduate from Babcock University, You would think he has been doing this forever. Chisom’s work has been featured by noir Magazine, pokeLagos and many others. Chisom or Cheezus as he is fondly called by fans of his work doesn’t like to be contained in a box and enjoys exploring different creative paths. @inchisomwetrust. Click through the gallery for a couple of his works. Currently, writers aren’t generally seen as one of the creatives but this is an amazing skill that personally I feel is underrated. Hanson Edikan is a Lagos based writer who began to write at age 6. If you follow her on Instagram you may think she is a stylist or a blogger because of her incredible style. Edikan is a well-rounded person, she’s one of those writers who know a little about everything and actually lives up to standards and expectations of her readers. She is the author of ‘Give me my mind back’ an exceptional book – I’m going to give you a sneak peek below. read it on Okadabooks http://okadabooks.com/book/about/13544
(Thank me later). This piece is to/for everyone with a little fuel left in their drive. Write till your words create unbreakable souls. Sing till your voice breaks through decades of guilt. Draw till your images create a synergy between broken systems. Dance till your steps help people out of pits. Speak till your life is reflected in everyone. Just be, with purpose & intensity… —Excerpt from – Give Me My Mind Back @hisbrownpoet Andikan is one of those creatives that do not look to a magazine, blog or website for validation he believes solely in creating his own kind of art.
Although Andikan is a self-taught photographer, his career is on the rise, Currently, he is an in-house photographer of Alte Studios.
He has shot some of Nigeria’s biggest names, including Denola grey, Noble Igwe, Dj Obi, Maraji and Sean Tizzle also a couple of international acts; Silento, tony yayo, chipmunk, red cafe, Khalo & Riton
His bold and beautiful images are characterised by their striking use of colour, light and angles. He is a creative genius that your brand will thank you for.
@andikan_.  Click through the gallery for a couple of his works. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .