When a woman’s monthly visitor visits, there are a number of activities you definitely do not feel like doing because of how your how your body feels. There are also a number of things you should not do, not just because they do not feel great, but because they could also harm your health or make you feel even worse. That time of the month is already a bummer as it is, so why make it harder on yourself. Everyone’s body is different, so some people may be more sensitive to these things than others, but if you struggle through your period, it might just be best to avoid these things altogether. Here are the four things you should probably never during your period if you want to feel your best and avoid discomfort: Do Not Eat Salty Foods Photo credit: Pinterest Even though you might have the ultimate craving for French fries, some salty snacks can actually make your period symptoms worse. “Salty foods contribute to the bloating/water retention that women feel around the time of their periods. Eating salty foods can also worsen cramps. White Pants Should Be a Pet peeve Photo credit: Fashion Tamer Wearing white pants during your period is definitely a bad idea there is this longing that comes with wearing white pants during your period. Instead of taking the risk, we need to put all of our white pants away until after our monthly visit, so we can wear them with confidence later on. Do Not Use the Same Protection for a Long Period Photo credit: Pixabay It is easy to be caught up in your everyday activities, but do not leave the same pad or tampon in all day. Even if the box of pads or tampons says you can use each product for 8 hours straight, it is important to change it every 3 to 4 hours. This limits discomfort and prevents bacteria from developing, forming that nasty odor we all know too well. Do Not Miss the Gym Photo credit: Pinterest We have all been there. The cramping is so awful that all we want to do is stay curled up in bed, watch television, and have snacks. However, as unbelievable as it may sound exercising helps relieve cramps and other body aches when bleeding. Therefore, we should learn to hit the gym more during our period. 