 Senator Dino Melaye (APC – Kogi West) PHOTO: INSTAGRAM/DINO MELAYE  Who says the Melaye-Police drama has ended!! It has not and may not end soon. It will be more interesting in the days ahead, especially as Melaye has survived the recall plot and will continue to be a senator. It was expected that with the bail, Melaye will be release conditionally, but his re-arrest by the police means that more drama will unfold in the days ahead. Now that Melaye has been taken to Lokoja, arraigned and remanded in police custody till June 11, the drama may stop for now. Melaye has become a cat with nine lives and it is certain that outcome of the recall process last Saturday will embolden him to dare his enemies, including the Police. But it appears Melaye may not know peace, until he resolves his differences with his political enemies. God Will Judge PDP, Others For Mismanaging Nigeria’s Resources- Buhari
President Muhammadu Buhari has taken another swipe at successive Peoples Democratic Party administrations between 1999 and 2015, saying God will judge them for mismanaging the country’s resources.“Nigerians know that there were no roads or rail lines, there was no power, despite the billions of dollars spent. Only God will judge this thing,” Buhari said. The president said he approached the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) shortly after assuming office and he told him there was no money in federal coffers.“In those 16 years of PDP rule, Nigeria was getting 2.1 million times 100 (2.1 million barrels by $100 per barrel) everyday, every week, but when we came on board, the price fell to between $37-38 and hung around $40-$50. “I went to the Central Bank of Nigeria– the governor of CBN is here–and asked him, how far? And he said nothing was left apart from debts,” he said.President Buhari, mind you that Nigerians cannot afford to wait for God’s judgment on those who mismanaged their resources for years. This is especially, when they are not cocksure of when the judgment will come, even as it is obvious that the looters and squanders are still enjoying their loots and walking free. So, Mr. President what is expected of your government is to manage the available resources judiciously, while you ensure that all the looters are brought to book without fear or favour. It is not enough to lay curse on them, without taking action that will serve as a deterrent to others.There is no doubt that over the years, the country has suffered huge infrastructural deficits, while public funds have been mismanaged by successive governments. But the worry and fear is that your government may not to be different. Buhari’s Visit: U.S. Finalises Repatriation Of Over $500m To Nigeria –AGF
The visit of President Muhammadu Buhari to U.S. President, Donald Trump, has yielded the finalisation of negotiations to repatriate more than $500 million (about 190 billion Naira) of Nigeria’s looted money traced to the U.S. Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, told News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Washington DC that he and the Attorney-General of the U.S. had met to finalise the agreement.Malami explained that the technicalities involved were being taken care of by officials of both governments. This is a positive development and good outcome of President Buhari’s U.S visit. As good as this may sound, Nigerians want to know when the money finally arrives and how it will be used. It is not good to make public the move to recover the stolen fund, but keep secret the use of the fund.It is the right of Nigerians to know because the monies are theirs. Apart from this, Nigerians have heard such news in the past, only to be kept in the dark after such monies arrive. It is time for the governments to be more accountable to the people of Nigeria.If not, there is every tendency that the recovered loots will be relooted as usual and heaven will not fall. After all, the worst that can happen is for the looters to be arrested, detained and released, while the case lingers in the court. Okorocha Approves Automatic Promotion For Imo Workers
Imo Governor, Rochas Okorocha has approved automatic promotion for all workers in the state as part of his package for their supportive role to his administration. Okorocha gave the approval at the 2018 Workers’ Day celebration held at the Heroes Square, Owerri on Tuesday.He said the promotion is not on a step basis, but the grade of the workers.He said the automatic promotion was to make up for the non-promotion the workers have suffered for seven years. Workers are the live wire of every organisation. I salute your courage, your commitment and resilience during the trying times with numerous challenges ranging from insecurity, lack of infrastructure and low remuneration.On the minimum wage, the governor assured the workers that whatever the Federal Government had agreed to pay workers, “Imo government will not be found wanting.” It is obvious that Okorocha’s promotion of workers is political and suspicious. The timing and motive is very clear. It is all about luring workers to support Okorocha’s godson and son in-law in 2019 to succeed him. If not, why did Okorocha delay the promotion for seven years, only to release it at the twilight of his administration? So, who is fooling who? Are they not the same workers that have been battling Okorocha for their salaries? This Okorocha’s Greek gift to workers in Imo State is laughable and demeaning. No wonder the promotion is on the basis of workers’ grade, not steps. Meanwhile, how can a government that finds it difficult to pay N18,000 minimum wage, be ready to pay N56,000 proposed minimum wage? Dokpesi’s U.S. Visa Revoked Over Looters’ List
Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain Raymond Dokpesi’s application for visa to the United States (U.S.) has been revoked, because his name is on the looters’ list released by the Federal Government, the media mogul has said. He had sued Minister of Information and Culture Alhaji Lai Mohammed, who announced the list, seeking payment of N5billion damages. No date has been fixed for hearing the suit filed on Monday, before the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory.Dokpesi said the defendants allegedly sent his name as a looter to the United States Embassy, which in turn notified him on March 16 that his application for visa had been revoked.The US Embassy, he said, told him it was because his name was among a looters’ list submitted to it by the Federal Government.Hmmm, Oga Dokpesi, wahala dey ooo. So, there is no US travel for you for now? This is unbelievable. Has it been established that you are a looter? I think it is still in the realm of allegation. Well, Is the U.S. saying that they have investigated and discovered that you have some hidden loots in US. If not, why revoking your visa, just because your name is on the looters’ list? Were application for visa by all the people on the looters’ list revoked? If it was only your own that was revoked, then it means that something is wrong somewhere. You need to tread with caution to avoid being caught unawares. Taking the Minister of Information to court may not be enough for you to scale the hurdle. May Day: Fayose Promotes 37,132 Ekiti Workers
Ekiti State Governor, Ayodele Fayose, has promoted 37,132 workers whose promotion were left unattended to since 2015.The governor said the development is to lay to rest agitation by workers, demanding the implementation of the promotion arrears. He added that the promotion takes effect immediately.Fayose, who performed his last May Day function, however, urged the workers to vote for his deputy, Olusola Kolapo, and assured them he would continue his administration’s good works. Just like his Imo counterpart, Fayose’s promotion of workers on May Day is political. It shows how politicians can politicise everything, including what ought be done on merit. Why should governors wait till twilight of their administration to promote workers that were due for promotion before? Is it not height of hypocrisy and sheer wickedness? So annoying is the fact that some of these workers have more integrity and qualification than these governors. But do you blame them? It is what politics gave to Nigerians in the name of democracy and leadership. It is quite unfortunate and nobody knows when this nonsense will stop.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .