 Executive Director Operations, Daily Need Group, Segun Jolayemi (left); Brand Ambassador De-Deon’s Syrup, Zainab Balogun; Group Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Daily Need Group, Oluwatosin Jolayemi and Marketing Manager, Daily Need Group, Olusola Adeyi at a press conference in Lagos  “We have several growth platforms starting with consumer healthcare and innovative medicine. Thus alongside our array of Over The Counter (OTC) consumer healthcare products, we are strengthening our activities in other areas including branded generics and prescription medicines.” He said.
Jolayemi made the remark during the repositioning of its brand, De-Deon’s and unveiling ceremony of Nollywood actress Zainab Balogun as the brand’s ambassador. The company claims that De-Deon’s is the first blood tonic formulated from organic materials in contrast to other inorganic formulation and it is effective against anaemic syndromes, exhaustion and stress.He added: “To enhance quality of life and well being, Daily Need Group has repositioned its brand, De-Deon, for continuous impact on the nation’s healthcare and to correct the perception that blood tonic is only for convalescents but also a supplement.” Similarly, Head, Quality Operations of Daily Need Group, Ngozi Osuji noted that vitamin B12 is a major component of the product, regarded as an essential vitamin, boosts brain cells, formation of blood, and enhances the brain. Osuji added that the product is important for protein metabolism; it helps in the formation of red blood cells and in the maintenance of the central nervous system and also helps to prevent anaemia that makes people tired and weak. Meanwhile, the ambassador, Zainab Balogun said the product’s quality and benefits measured up to the required standards. In her words: “I am inspired by this product as I have not seen something like De Deon’s. It helps you manage stress, improves efficiency and productivity as you go on your daily activities.” Jolayemi explained that the brand is designed to meet National Agency for Food Drug Administration Control (NAFDAC), World Health Organisation (WHO) and United States Food Drug Administration (USFDA) standards. “With our bigger manufacturing capacity and improved processes, we are now more than committed to the federal government national drug policy aimed at 70 per cent national self-sufficiency in drugs through greater local production. “We are ready to improve the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by increased employment and boost export trade with supply of drugs to other African countries. We reflect on the past years and eagerly look forward to the opportunities that lie ahead of us in this dynamic environment. We continue to stay true to our mission of creating a positive impact on the health of the Nigerian populace and the world at large with world class pharmaceuticals products.” Marketing Manager, Daily Need Group, Olusola Adeyi stressed that the brand was introduced into the Nigerian market over 35 years ago, as blood tonic for anemia, stress, mental and physical fatigue, pregnant women, nursing mothers and old persons.Adeyi said the repositioning is to correct the perception that De-Deon’s is only and essentially for the ‘weak and recuperating’ or the ‘elderly and exhausted’ persons, as it contains supplements that provide essential support for the mind and body. He said: “Our new facility has been designed to meet the required standard for quality medicines production. We have the generic and penicillin facilities designed to run a triple shift of 24 hours. Both facilities have separate air handing system, water distribution system and drainage to prevent cross contamination and maintain the essential class of air in the process areas as specified for food and drug regulations and CGMP. “Prior to 2003, the annual turnover was just about 500,000 bottles. With the execution of the national campaign in 2003, a target of two million bottles in 24 months was set, but this was surpassed in 18 months.“By the year 2007, the yearly turnover of De-Deon’s has surpassed 3 million bottles. At the onset, De-Deon’s was ranked fifth among other competing brands in Nigeria. As of today, De-Deon’s is ranked number one blood tonic in Nigeria with an annual capacity of 40 Million bottles.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .