Governor Umaru Tanko Al-Makura of Nassarawa State • I Have Not Stepped Down, Says Debo Ajayi
Chairman of the Electoral Committee and Nasarawa State Governor, Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, has directed all the delegates voting in today’s primary election of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to come along with their international passports and voter cards or any other legal means of identification as condition for accreditation. Al-Makura said there would be heavy security within and outside the venue of the primary to forestall a repeat of the mayhem that truncated the last exercise. Addressing reporters, yesterday, at Damlek Event Centre in Ado-Ekiti, venue of the primary, he warned the seven persons banned by the National working Committee (NWC) from participating in the poll to steer clear of the venue or risk arrest and prosecution. The media parley was attended by the state Commissioner of Police, Mr. Bello Ahmed; Director of Department of State Service (DSS), Mrs. Promise
Iheanacho; Commandant of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Mr. Donatus Ikemefuna and Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Mr. Ismaila Kugu. Those to be accredited are aspirants, delegates, journalists, observers and other critical stakeholders. Apart from the security arrangement, Al-Makura explained that facilities needed for the conveniences of participants have been provided. Al-Makura said: “Any delegate accredited won’t be allowed to go out for any reason. “Any delegate that enters the arena must be identified by his party membership card and extra statutory identity, such as International Passport, driver’s licence, National Identity Card or Permanent Voter Card (PVC). “Such delegates must be identified with the list given to us by the national secretariat. All accreditation must be completed for delegates from all the senatorial zones before voting starts. “Voting will be done once at a time and it will start with delegates from Ekiti South, the farthest, then Ekiti North and Ekiti Central, the closest. “After identification, delegates will be given ballot paper and they will submit their delegates tag for punching and they will also submit the ropes of their tags. He also noted that the panel would not allow any aspirant or delegate that wears branded materials to the venue of the primary. Al-Makura disclosed that some of the hoodlums arrested for disrupting the primary were already being prosecuted in the court. Meanwhile, one of the governorship aspirants, Mr. Debo Ajayi, has denied reports that he has stepped down for the Minister of Mine and Steel Development, Dr. Kayode Fayemi. Ajayi, who address journalists in Ado Ekiti, yesterday, said he could not be stooge of anybody, adding that those peddling the rumour were the ones who are not sure of their chances in the primary election. “For the avoidance of doubt, my aspiration is a call to service and a response to the agitation of the south senatorial district to produce the next governor. My aspiration is borne out of commitment to the restoration project. “I therefore intend to participate and God willing, I intend to win the primary tomorrow (today).”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .