PHOTO: Headies After what would be a one-year break, organiser’s of the Headies Award, Nigeria’s foremost music awards, made a laudable comeback with its 12th edition. Held at the Eko Convention Centre of the Eko Hotel & Suites, Lagos, the award, 12th in the series, had in attendance stakeholders of Nigerian entertainment, musicians, lovers of music, who turned up enmass was a ceremony filled with more glamour, as the brightest Nigerian music stars were celebrated. From the red carpet, which kicked off at the scheduled time, to the award ceremony, which commenced at exactly 10pm, the performances, side attractions and hilarious moments, it was indeed a night of fun and entertainment. The hosts, comedian Bovi and singer Seyi Shay, showcased their innate talents with their A-game. It was a night for the self-proclaimed Omo Baba Olowo (O.B.O), David Adeleke popularly known as Davido as he walked home with the ‘Artiste of the Year’, ‘Song of the Year (If)’ and ‘Best Pop Single (If)’ awards. Davido in what may be consider as a compelling acceptance speech, charged his contemporaries to always lend their support to budding musicians, saying, this is the secret behind his success. “I want to tell all the artiste here; una get money, anything una fit do for people make una do. E no go cost una anything. We rise by lifting others,” he said. The ‘Fia’ crooner is the founder of Davido Music Worldwide (DMW), a music label that has played a very significant role in providing a platform for upcoming musicians. Joromi crooner, Simi was not left out in the big moment as she also bagged awards in the category of ‘Best R&B Single (Smile for Me)’, ‘Best Recording of the Year (Joromi)’ and ‘Album of the Year’ (Simisola), defeating heavyweights like Flavour (Ijele), Wizkid (Sound from Other Side), Phyno (The Playmaker), Brymo (Clitoris) and Adekunle Gold (Gold). Star boy, Wizkid proved he is viewers’ choice as he clinched the ‘Viewers Choice’ and ‘Best Music Video’ awards respectively with his club banger, Come Closer. Like that wasn’t enough, the Daddy Yo crooner also walked away with ‘Best R&B and Pop Album’ awards with Sounds from Other Side. Yemi Alade’s energetic display did not go unnoticed as the new ‘Mama Africa’ emerged Best Performer, edging out Flavour, M.I, 2Baba, Tiwa Savage, and Falz the Bahd Guy. 2Baba proved that he is king of dancehall as he walked away with the Best Raggae/Dancehall Single with his Holy Holy hit, even as Alaga Ibile and Baba Hafusa, Reminisce clinched the Best Rap Album with his El Hadj. The nominees for the ‘Producer of the Year’ category are all good in their own right but there must be w inner for every contest. Kidomminant went home with the Headie for this category for his production of the critically acclaimed hits — Fall, Mama. He dislodged other heavyweights in the industry, who were also nominated in the category, including Spellz (Iskaba, Malo), Tekno (If), Selebobo (Rara), Sarz
(Maradona, Come Closer), Cobhams (Butterflies, Virtuous Woman), and Masterkraft (Yawa, Augment). For, Mayorkun, a Davido Music Worldwide (DMW) recording artiste, winning the ‘Next Rated’ award was well deserved, as the category paraded the best of the best, which includes Maleek Berry, Zoro, Dice Ailes, and Johnny Drille. Known for many hit songs that rocked charts since he signed on to Davido Music Worldwide (DMW) record label, Mayorkun went home with the brand new SUV that was attached to the category. Taking to Twitter the next day, the singer dedicated the award to Davido, saying: “Dedicating this ‘Next Rated’ award I won last night to you bro @davidoofficial – You gave me a voice!! I can’t wait till I’m able to do the same for others! God bless you immensely!!” The performances of the night were top-notch save for Niniola, who surprised everyone with a sub-par showcase. She had perhaps the most uncoordinated, drab and obviously unrehearsed performance. Everything was off, from her outfit, to the chewing gum in her mouth to mis-steps with the dancers. Explaining what went wrong, Niniola, who took to her Twitter handle on Sunday, said, “I had flown in from Owerri after a performance yesterday (the evening of the Headies), to grace the Award event that has served as a platform for us as entertainers and I unfortunately could not rehearse with the Band or even work on any performance set for the show #Headies2018. “I promptly informed the organizers that I would not be performing as I am very particular about my brand and the performance delivery I give to my friends and supporters that have helped my career to the point that it is today. “I was informed that the song would be played and dancers would have their set to it. It was however to my greatest surprise that the Host called my name for the performance. Here I was, not dressed for a performance, stunned, dazed and in disarray,” she added. She continues: “If I refused to stand up and respond to the announcement, I would come off as being arrogant and badly behaved (most likely comments would be made about how little fame and success have gotten to my head) since everyone knew I was in the hall “On the flipside, if I went on stage, I was likely to be out of tune with the band and the entire set, which I had not rehearsed for. In a confused state, I made the decision in that split second, out of respect to the organizers and my fans, to honor the call and put in the most that I could.” Organisers of the award, Smooth Promotions, also ensured that guests at this year’s ceremony had sufficient dose of nostalgia, as old-time music groups, Danfo Drivers (Mad Melon and Mountain Black) and Zule Zoo delivered stellar performances of their classic records, Kpolongo and Kerewa respectively. Although ‘Best Street-Hop Artiste’ nominee, Mr Real, lost to Small Doctor, he gave what would be the most entertaining performance of the night. The ‘Legbegbe’ master mounted the sage with an array of dancers and mesmerised with the buzzing shaku-shaku dance, while he delivered a lively rendition of his 2017 street anthem Legbegbe. Like the comedian that he is, Bovi, while carrying with his host duties, in comic manner threw a subtle shade in the direction of the defunct P-Square group — Rudeboy and Mr. P. The ‘Man on Fire’ insinuated that next year, the brothers may be nominated in the next rated category – pointing to the fact that they have become rising artistes of sorts as a result of their decision to go solo. “By this time next year, we will have the likes of Rudeboy and Mr P in the ‘Next Rated category”, he stated, while the audience responded with a resounding burst of laughter. Also, as anticipated, Bovi ensured he threw shots in the direction of his co-host, Seyi Shay. Half-way into the show, the comedian reminded everyone of Seyi Shay’s infamous TV blunder when she said during an interview that the acronym EP (Extended Play) was ‘Electric Package’.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .