Police clash with protestors during a opposition demonstration against a draft electoral law adopted by Madagascar’s National Assembly on April 21, 2018 in Antananarivo.<br />The demonstration, betwee 500 and 800 individuals, was severely repressed by riot police as it was not authorised by the authorities, with a current toll of 1 dead by gunshot and 16 wounded according to emergency services. Demonstrators managed to take over the May 13 square, where the town hall of Antananarivo is located, with members of the TIM party of Marc Ravalomanana’s currently making speeches to the crowd. / AFP PHOTO / RIJASOLO The African Union is optimistic a deal will be struck in Madagascar to end the crisis that has shaken the Indian Ocean island where the president has faced street protests demanding his resignation. Madagascar has been rocked for three weeks by violent and deadly opposition protests following the introduction of controversial electoral laws that would have prevented opposition candidates from participating in elections expected later this year. The country’s top court last week threw out as unconstitutional the contentious sections of the legislation and on Friday, President Hery Rajaonarimampianina approved the changes to the law as ordered. The African Union, the UN and regional bloc Southern African Development Community have dispatched mediation envoys to Madagascar to try to defuse the crisis. “In the wake of all these efforts,…the international community emissaries were able to get the main (Madagascan) parties to open high level political consultations to reconcile their points of view,” according to an AU statement released Friday night. Read More: Madagascar protesters seek president’s resignation This should lead to a “draft political agreement to allow a calm and orderly evolution towards the holding of presidential election on a date provided for by the constitution,” said the AU. Since April 21, hundreds of opposition supporters have occupied the May 13 Square in the heart of the capital Antananarivo, demanding the resignation of the president ahead of general elections seven months away.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .