 Country Manager, ESET Nigeria, Olufemi Ake (left) receiving ESET’s Best Information Security Company of the Year award from the Chairman, Open Media, Dr. Ernest Ndukwe at BoICT Awards 2018, organised by CommunicationsWeek Limited in Lagos.  Speaking at the weekend in Lagos, at the yearly Beacon of Information and Communications Technology (BoICT) awards, the ninth edition, where Systemspec bagged the software company of the year award and its Founder, John Obaro, bagged ‘Man of the Year’, Okeme said the remita platform, which is powering the TSA, has created a new way of public financial management. According to him, it has helped the government to structure its receipts in such a way that control is guaranteed. “You can see your cash asset at a click of a button wherever they are,” he stated. Okeme said by the middle of April, the Accountant- General of the Federation, said effective savings the government was making through the TSA was about N4billion. “If you look at N4billion and you annualise it and  for the past two and half years that the the scheme has run, that gives you an idea of values that TSA has created for the government in terms of cash at hand for developmental project.  If you consider the Lagos-Ibadan road project conservatively. It will be about N160billion, so lets assume you do the maths, N4 billion by the two and half years, we have enough money to embark on a project such as that.” The Systemspec Commercial Officer said the TSA has also enabled the capacity for financial planning and management, especially at the Ministries, Department and Agencies (MDAs). Today, it has enabled the Minister of Finance, Kemi Adeosun, to have better understanding of the capacity of the MDAs, helping in the areas of planning, capacity building, among others. Speaking on the low development of the software sub-sector, Okeme, who admitted that the use of foreign software in the country was still very high, however, noted that activities among indigenous players have gone up in the sub-sector. “I think there is a conscious effort to among others, patronise local players and that is creating the incentives for a lot more development in the space. We are getting lots of capacity buildings. Lots of technology hubs are coming up in the industry and they are helping us to harness the raw energy of young and talents of Nigerian. We just need the right level of support for the industry to take off. The recent visit of the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, to some technology hubs in Lagos would also go a long way to increase believes in the industry.  Government must follow up with actions. There are still so many foreign softwares dominating,” he stated. He advised that more people like Obaro must come up to bring up software entrepreneurs of the next generation.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .