The Nigeria Olympic Committee (NOC) is sure the ongoing league being managed by the Tijjani Umar faction of the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) would not in any way cause the Federation of International Basketball Association (FIBA) to ban the country from internationals, saying the world basketball body is only interested in bringing to an end the NBBF leadership crisis. NOC Secretary General, Tunde Popoola told The Guardian yesterday that the on-going leadership tussle in the NBBF is based on lack of unity and understanding between the NBBF President, Musa Kida and Tijani Umar. He noted that the recommendations by FIBA in its last communiqué sent to the Nigeria clearly stated that Kida is still recognised as the president of the board pending when a new election is held. Popoola declared that Umar should have by now communicated with Kida to resolve issues, instead of trying to run his own affairs under the umbrella of NBBF.The NOC scribe, however, enjoined the warring parties to embrace peace, adding that creating impediments capable of jeopardising the development of the dunking game is not a good omen to the country. “I don’t think FIBA is interested in banning Nigeria from basketball based on the parallel league and the leadership crisis in the NBBF. They want basketball to grow in the country. From my own view, I think based on the fact that that FIBA has said that they don’t want third party interference on NBBF issues, Umar should have met with Kida to resolve the issues at stake. “There is nothing wrong in both parties coming together to work towards making Nigerian basketball great. Since FIBA has given Kida the nod to still be in charge of the NBBF pending elections, any basketball activities contrary to his board would not be recognised by FIBA. The NOC is pleading with the two parties to seek truce to help aid the growth of basketball in the country in 2018. “ To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .