 Air Cote d’Ivoire  Group Chief Executive Officer of Ethiopian Airlines, Tewolde GebreMariam, said the partnership was aimed at connecting passengers from West Africa to ET’s new flights to Newark via Abidjan.“I wish to thank the Côte d’Ivoire Government and the Minister of Transport in particular as well as Air Côte d’Ivoire for making this partnership possible. Ethiopian new Abidjan flights to Newark will be operated in complementarity to our existing Newark service via Lomé, which is being availed together with our strategic partner, ASKY Airlines. Such partnerships among sisterly African airlines are crucial for African countries to fill the connectivity vacuum in the continent and for African carriers to regain their market share in their home market.” CEO of Air Côte d’Ivoire, René Decurey, noted that just few months ago, Abidjan airport was certified to carry out direct links with the USA.“It is now time to launch theses direct flights and Air Côte d’Ivoire is very happy to carry out the operation in codeshare with Ethiopian Airlines. This agreement will allow Air Côte d’Ivoire to sell the flights as well. “We will, therefore, be able to offer passengers on our network, flights to the USA via Abidjan with a single Air Côte d’Ivoire ticket. We are convinced that this partnership is the beginning of a long collaboration that will fully benefit our two Airlines and African passengers who used to pass through Europe to travel to the USA,” Decurey said. Ethiopian Airlines currently flies to 58 cities in Africa, and more than 112 destinations globally.	Meanwhile, Ethiopian Airlines is also proud to announce that it has been recognised by TripAdvisor, one of the largest and most reputed global travel sites, as “The Best Business Class in Africa and Indian Ocean”. TripAdvisor has evaluated the world’s top carriers based on reviews and ratings gathered from travelers worldwide over a 12-month period and recognised Ethiopian Airlines for its outstanding service, as well as the quality and value in its service delivery.	Group CEO, Ethiopian Airlines, Tewolde GebreMariam, said: “We are highly honored to receive this award from TripAdvisor, the most prestigious global travel site. I wish to thank the TripAdvisor community for their resounding vote of confidence in our premium class product and service. “We offer the best value proposition to premium travelers, whether corporate or government, thanks to our operational excellence, convenient and seamless connectivity, superior on-board product and top-notch end-to–end customer service. “We will continue to invest in the latest the technology aircraft such as the B787 and A350 that offer unmatched on-board comfort and to enhance our premium on-ground and on-board offerings with a superior level of service so as to meet the high expectations of premium travellers and remain their airline of choice.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .