Kaduna State governor Nasir El-Rufai Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai has disclosed that the policy of free basic education in the state is saving parents N3bn every year. He explained that the removal of hidden fees and levies have increased enrolment in public primary schools from 1.1m in 2015 to about 2m in September 2017. While identifying teachers as key ingredient of qualitative education, El-rufai said their welfare is a priority to his administration. On the reforms being implemented in the sector, the governor said he is fixing the inherited problems of dilapidated schools, as there are many without desks and chairs. The governor recalled that he shared an album showing the sorry state of Kaduna schools with the Federal Ministry of Finance and development partners, including the World Bank, to demonstrate the extent of the challenge and the significant funding that would be required to fix it. He reported that this was the beginning of the conversations that resulted in the World Bank approving the $350m concessionary “Programme for Results” facility for Kaduna State in June 2017. El-Rufai maintained that teachers are central to progressive educational outcomes, stressing that the state government intends to meet its target of 25,000 new teachers and take steps to enhance their welfare status. He listed the steps being taken to encourage teachers as waiving personal income tax, investing in their continuous training and providing free housing for those posted to rural areas. The governor warned that the country cannot neglect public education if it wants progressive outcomes for its citizens. He noted that government has a duty to provide globally competitive education for every citizen. “We cannot allow the perverse situation of declining educational standard to persist.” He subsequently tasked government at all levels to invest in preparing the next generation for the technological world and a review of the curriculum to reflect this shift. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .