Former CBN deputy governor, Prof. Kingsley Moghalu declares his intentions to run for the office of the President in the 2019 General elections at a World Press Conference he addressed at the Yar’adua Centre, Abuja, on Wednesday, February 28, 2018. PHOTO: LUCY LADIDI ELUKPO A former deputy governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and a presidential aspirant in the 2019 elections, Professor Kingsley Moghalu, has chosen Young Progressive Party (YPP) as the platform on which to contest for the Nigerian presidency. Moghalu, who disclosed this yesterday in a statement on his Twitter handle, said the party was chosen for Nigerians to forget the misdeeds of the former leaders. He said YPP was chosen after it had affirmatively answered his questions of vision of leadership as one of service and accountability among others. Moghalu maintained that the ruling All Progressives Congress and former ruling party the PDP have failed in their promises to the people describing them as “parties of tired old tricks and tired old systems and tired old men.” He said: “I thought about why I have joined politics, the imperative of a radically new political leadership for Nigeria, one with a vision and the capacity to build a new and different future for our country. That meant almost automatically that I would not be part of the old order of failed and recycled politicians that have run our country aground with poverty, insecurity and corruption as our national legacy. “I, therefore, decided that I want to be part of a peaceful, democratic revolution that will usher in a new leadership and political order in our country. YPP is a great dare, a tantalizing promise and a notice of evacuation to Nigeria’s recycled political class. “So I am here today to announce that in response to the parties of the past, in response to umbrellas that block out the light of hope, and brooms that sweep away truth and replace them with lies, in response to the parties of tired old tricks and tired old systems and tired old men, I and millions across Nigeria will choose the YPP of today and tomorrow.” He described YPP as a grassroots-oriented party with historic network and cell leaders in every one of the six geopolitical zones of the country. Moghalu noted that the party has full and final structures  that can finally put an end to the agitations of Nigerians for quality leadership and appealed to Nigerians of voting age to join the party, “to vote and be voted for, so as to execute the party’s progressive plans for the country.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .