Yakubu Gowon The Congress of Northern Nigeria Christians has called on former Head of State, Gen. Yakubu Gowon, and other leaders of the faith to organise special prayers to end the ongoing mayhem nationwide. It particularly tasked the clerics to hold an open-air service on an appointed day to pray for the nation and God’s divine intervention in the murdering of faithful and assault on Christendom by the marauding attackers across the federation. The CNNC also called on Christian leaders nationwide to condemn in strong terms the killings that have assumed an alarming proportion. In a statement in Kaduna by its spokesperson, Larry Joseph Yammai, the Christian group urged the Federal Government to take practical steps to end the bloodletting and destruction of property by armed herdsmen and Boko Haram insurgents. Yammai said: “CNNC expresses outrage at the rising spate of killings in Benue State and other parts of the country. “These killings have become a recurrent decimal in our nation, as hardly a day goes by without these heinous acts being perpetrated by the illusive “Fulani herdsmen. “ CNNC demands practical and urgent steps to stop these senseless killings. “We commiserate with the wounded and those who have lost their loved ones. We are confident that help from our heavenly Father is on the way as our Redeemer lives.” He went on: “CNNC is alarmed by the nonchalance of Christian leaders, most especially at this trying time when faithful and non-faithful alike are experiencing unprecedented carnage from the so-called herdsmen who are obviously deranged. We shudder to think that the authorities will turn a blind eye while women, children and the defenseless are being killed on a daily basis. “CNNC also calls on the government of President Muhammadu Buhari to, as a matter of urgency, employ diverse practical and visible steps in eliminating these bandits that have actually made the Nigerian nation a battle field where the innocent are butchered on a daily basis.” Yammai cautioned the government not to offer semblance of support to the “killers.” He stated “the unwillingness of the government to tackle and eliminate these killers has emboldened them, hence, the almost daily killings across the land.” The spokesperson noted: “It should not take the President Donald Trump of the United States to call for the protection of Christians in Nigeria in the first place. Buhari must remember that he swore to protect the lives of Nigerians, and anything short of that, has invalidated his oath of office.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .