 Kayode Fayemi. PHOTO:  NAN  Meanwhile, Fayemi has cautioned his supporters against harbouring any ill feelings towards his co-contestants and their supporters, saying that they are all leaders who should be accorded great respect in view of their sterling qualities and contributions to the party.Fayemi, yesterday kick started reconciliatory move with his co-contestants barely 24 hours after he emerged the party’s flag bearer. A statement by the his media aide, Mr Yinka Oyebode said that he was accompanied by APC Ekiti State Chairman, Chief Jide Awe, and some chieftains of the party visited Segun Oni at his Ifaki-Ekiti country home early on Sunday morning.Swiftly, Ekiti State Governor, Mr. Ayodele Fayose has told Fayemi not to celebrate yet as his victory is Pyrrhic victory. The governor said Fayemi’s victory has only positioned him to suffer a worse and more debilitating defeat than that of 2014.Fayose who spoke through his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Idowu Adelusi, said, “In 2014 when he was the sitting governor and I was not in power, I trounced him mercilessly. I gave him 16 – 0, defeating him in all the local governments, including in his hometown. He did not win a single local government. “Now, I have been in power for more than three years and have served the people of Ekiti well. My legacy projects are there to speak for me, and for my party the PDP, as well as for our candidate in the July 14 governorship election, Prof. Kolapo Olusola Eleka.’’ “Fayemi will suffer the worst defeat of his political career. After the July 14 election, he will go into political oblivion.“He has nothing to celebrate because of the electoral disaster awaiting him. The manner of his so-called victory also leaves much to be desired as it has turned many of their party leaders and followers against him”, he added.Fayose then appealed to those trampled under feet by Fayemi, especially those of them who were members of PDP, to return home. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .