 Read More: After 7,895 days and 1,235 games, Wenger bids emotional farewell to Arsenal  France
Though Wenger has stated his desire to continue coaching in a top European club, the possibility of coaching Les Bleus remains. Current France Coach, Didier Deschamps is not doing badly, getting the team within a hair’s breadth of winning the Euro 2016, but things could go awry depending on the performance of the team at the World Cup in Russia. Deschamps can sometimes seem incapable of handling and fitting a huge array of talent available to him. Wenger is respected for his work with young talents, and with Kylian Mbappe and Ousmane Dembele still blossoming, the 68-year old might be interest the French Football Federation. PSG
When PSG started their revolution, Wenger was contacted to come steer the rudder of the French club but he refused, PSG looks stuck still unable to crack the European code despite shelling a world record fee for Neymar. The buck has stopped with the current manager Unai Emery, who will be leaving is role at the end of the season. Perhaps, for Wenger to step in. Read More: I will not coach any English team against Arsenal, says Wenger Monaco
Monaco represents a phase of Wenger’s career, where he honed much of his managerial skills for seven years before he moved for a short stint at Nagoya Grampus in the J-League. It could be where he looks to end it also, he’d be granted stability, and with PSG in the league, there’s enough motivation to compete. Monaco’s youth policy would also excite Wenger, as he’d have young players to impact his playing philosophy onto. Read More: Arsenal-target Allegri insists he’s sticking with Juventus Juventus
Max Allegri is a strong contender to replace Wenger at Arsenal. If the Italian makes the move, there’d be a void to fill at Juventus. Wenger could fill that void, getting control of a European superpower and he could probably get the European success he has wanted since. MLS
Seems unlikely with the number of offers he’s reportedly gotten but the MLS can offer Wenger the opportunity to revolutionise an entirely country’s perception of football (soccer). It could be sage Wenger showing upstarts another way in football management. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .