A new entrant, Francis Adie Ushie, a seasoned banker, has joined the race for the 2019 presidency on the platform of Believe Nigeria People’s Party (BNPP). According to him, BNPP was formed in 2017 following the call by Nigerian musician, Tuface Idibia on Nigerians to rally against the intolerable levels of poverty, unemployment rate, disease, insecurity, leadership absence and general leadership ineptitude. Speaking while making his intention public, he said, “I asked myself at the rally which the convener himself later opted out of, that the President we were protesting against was recuperating in London and may not even know what was happening at home so, why don’t we form a new political party to contest, win and be in government ourselves? And BNPP was birthed.” Stressing some of the party’s objectives to include bringing improvement to all the development sectors of the country, Ushie said, “Since independence, Nigeria as a country has failed to attain power independence. Power means everything so, we are in talks with contractors from Canada, Germany, and Norway; these are countries that have achieved power independence and have excess, they will build us new power plants and plan foreign exchange in the sector within foreseeable future. This is the first contract we shall award.” The Lagos State University graduate said owning to youth negligence, absence of platforms and non-inclusiveness in governance since independence, the past and present governments are now being haunted by their own shadow. He added, “Knowing the importance of the well being of Nigerians, we shall build a world class Hospital in Kano, Enugu and Lagos, and equip them with up to date facilities and funding and stop medical tourism.” He however commended the present government for the school feeding programme and the growth of the agriculture sector, stressing, “we are poised to take agriculture to the next technological height, as we shall train our citizens in mechanised farming, have internal food security and become Africa’s largest food export. “We have mapped out modalities to make Benue State the most advanced agricultural hub in sub-Saharan Africa and pride of the nation.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .