Victor Uwajeh A special investigator to the Special Presidential Investigation Panel on the Recovery of Public Property (SPIP), Evangelist Victor Uwajeh said his refusal to probe the Senate President, Bukola Saraki and key members of the opposition peoples democratic party (PDP) was the reason he was relieved of his duties. Uwajeh in a statement in Abuja further claimed that former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, Rivers state Governor Nyesom Wike, Senator Jonah Jang, Patience Jonathan, Femi Fani- Kayode were among those he was asked by the Okoi Obono-Obla led SPIP to probe. Uwajeh, who was consultant to the Economic and and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), alleged that his refusal to act on the courier document sent to him from Nigeria by the government which comprises of some names perceived to be opposed to the President Muhammadu Buhari led administration led to his sudden disengagement barely one month after he was contracted to do the job. Uwajeh claimed the anti-graft campaign is selective and that it is deliberate attempt to exempt APC chieftains who he termed “high looters” from an investigation. The London based investigator noted: “It was the procedure of the Panel to courier documents to me from Nigeria for despatch to various Agencies in the United Kingdom and worldwide. “Soon after I realised that the Panel has a mindset towards certain individuals and groups by the documents it sent to me. “Documents sent to me from Abuja to despatch to the Serious Fraud Office and Home Office, Metropolitan Police, FBI and EUROPOL had the names of the following senators: Senate President Abubakar Bukola Saraki, Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu, Sen. Albert Bassey Akpan and Sen. Stella Adaese Oduah.” “This raised a red flag and as a professional, I made my complaint immediately and made my position known to Okoi Obono Obla to transmit to the Attorney General and Minister of Justice. “I told him that I will not be a party to one-sided investigation to muscle in the opposition and persecute them. I made my position known that I am ready to expose corruption and recover stolen assets as a professional but will not be involved in the politics of “PULL THEM DOWN” in Nigeria. “My refusal to dance to the tune of the Government and SIPP led to my disengagement. “After meeting in London on 18th April, 2018, with some officials during the CHOGM, it was evident that I will not bulge in my position not to go against the ethics of my profession by investigating only the opposition. “As soon as they arrived Nigeria on the 23rd April 2018 they drafted a letter to disengage me. They kept the letter and wanted me to change my mind but I refused. On the 27th April 2018, they sent me a backdated letter of disengagement dated 23rd April 2018. “In the said letter it was alleged that I had a criminal allegation against me pending in court as the reason for my disengagement which is laughable.” “My refusal has led to a sustained assault on my person by the Attorney General and Minister of Justice Abubakar Malami. “My refusal to work with the APC led Government to humiliate the so-called enemies of Government has led me into exile. The Nigeria Police led by Ibrahim Kpotun Idris has continued to side with Senator Emmanuel Nnamdi Uba (Andy Uba) to stop him from paying me my professional fees. IGP Ibrahim Idris is an expert in setting people up and twisting issues to incriminate his enemies. “Abubakar Malami, Ibrahim Kpotun Idris and Mohammed Etsu should note that they cannot continue to be in this position forever and remember that power is transient. “I will continue to maintain my dignity even in the face of a gang up against me. “Nigeria can only move forward when the fight against corruption is not selective but holistic no matter whose ox is gored.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .