Former Governor of Edo State, Adams Oshiomhole, has formally declared his interest to vie for the chairmanship of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the party’s national convention billed to hold on June 23 this year. Oshiomhole, who declared his interest yesterday at Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja, said that he would ensure the party is administered in an open and transparent manner. He promised to re-organise the party in such a manner that it would be people-oriented, membership-driven and mass-based political organisation. Besides, he said he would ensure the party has an authentic and verifiable membership register for members and even non-members. This, he stressed, would create a credible platform for conducting direct primaries which will afford every member of the party to participate at all levels rather than the current situation of indirect delegate election, which is susceptible to manipulation, abuse and corruption by desperate aspirants at all levels. He said: “ For me, I am clear that a political party is a structured, voluntary association and not an amorphous informal mob that is not governed by the mood of its leaders at various levels. Therefore, APC must be seen to operate on the basis of its rules, which is the party’s constitution and other laws of the federation as they relate to the formation and administration of political parties. “Indeed, the constitution of the party is the basis of the contract between the party members. Thus a credible membership register is a pre-condition for sustainable internal party democracy. We must be seen to play politics of inclusion, which encourages debates, contestations and consensus on policy choices.” Meanwhile, Chairman of the APC Governors’ Forum and Imo State Governor, Owelle Rochas Okorocha, who described Oshiomhole as a dogged-fighter, assured that he would surely strengthen the party if elected at the national convention. He said with Oshiomhole on the saddle, opposition parties like the People’s Democratic Party would face a herculean task in undermining the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .