University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan A man in his early 50s yesterday morning committed suicide by deliberately plunging from the fifth floor of the administrative building of the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan, Oyo State. The incident, which caught many people unawares, attracted their attention when they suddenly saw the man landing with a thud on the cemented floor outside the Mortuary Department of the hospital. Dressed in blue native attire and wearing a pair of palm sandals, the deceased, whose identity was yet to be ascertained by the police as at the time of filing this report, smashed his head when he hit it the floor. The head of the Public Relations unit of the hospital, Mr. Deji Bobade, confirmed the incident to newsmen in Ibadan. He said the man purposely went to the floor where the museum was under lock and jumped down in an attempt to commit suicide. “As we all know, the Joint Health Sector Unions (JOHESU) strike is on and no health worker was allowed to be at work. At about 9:00a.m. people around the ground floor of the building said they just heard the thud sound of a heavy object. “On getting to the place, the body of a man, probably in his late 50s or early 60s, was found on the ground. Doctors around certified him dead. We contacted the Police Public Relations Officer, Adekunle Ajisebutu, who ordered his men to deposit the body in our mortuary here. “There was no means of identification found on him but his footwear was a ‘dunlop’ rubber slippers,” he said. Eyewitnesses told newsmen that the man climbed the handrail by the staircase of the floor, got on top of the short visor constructed as an umbrella to protect people using the stairs, and then jumped, which saw him land on the hard floor where his body could be easily seen by passers-by. However, unconfirmed reports indicated that the man left a note indicating he was duped of N30 million and so decided to take his life. The note was said to have been taken away by the police. Efforts by newsmen to get the police to shed more light on the incident proved abortive as Ajisebutu failed to pick his calls. He also did not respond to a text sent to his phone. This is coming nearly a week after Abibatu, a teenage girl living in Apamini Anex Road in Rumuokoro community, Obio-Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State, had committed suicide. Abibatu, who was a student of one of the secondary schools in the area and was described by residents as “cool, calm and an intelligent girl”, was said to have taken insecticide, which eventually choked her to death. Sources said the 17-year-old girl was impregnated by a yet-to-be-identified person, a development that made her parents angry at her.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .