   A nurse/midwife, Tosin Mathew-Akinsiku, noted that according to World Health Organisation (WHO), Immunisation is the process whereby a person is made immune or resistant to an infectious disease, typically by the administration of a vaccine.   Immunisation is of great importance to us and our children, administering vaccines stimulate our body’s own immune system to protect us against subsequent infections or disease. There are various ways through which immunisation is of great importance to us; its saves us precious time by ensuring we stay healthy rather than spend time at the hospitals to get treated. It also saves up money; it is more expensive to be sick, than being healthy. We save money of cost of treatments and other possible consequences of falling sick. Immunisation protects our children from diseases and also helps protect the people around us as the spread of diseases are often checked. Mathew-Akinsiku, who also doubles as the founder of Pregnancy Lounge, said that certain diseases could be very fatal for young children, especially the ones under five years because their immune systems haven’t yet built up the necessary defenses to fight serious infections and diseases. They are more at increased risk at the early age, so it is important to ensure they get the necessary vaccinations, which should start early in life to protect children before they are exposed to these diseases. “When immunised, the body practices fighting the disease by making antibodies that recognises specific parts of that germ. This response by the body to external threats means that in case of any kind of exposure to the actual disease, the antibodies are already in place and the body knows how to combat so the person doesn’t get sick. The risk of disease from vaccination is extremely small. “Vaccines are one of the most effective weapons we have against disease. They greatly reduce your child’s risk of serious illness. As much as there is no 100 per cent guarantee, I would practically say if your vaccinated child does get a disease, his symptoms with the vaccine would be less serious than if he hadn’t had the shot. “Immunisation positively affects the growth and development of a child. Getting infected with diseases, especially at a very young age, could have adverse effect on a child’s growth and physiological development. Immunisation is one effective way to check these diseases and ensure that a child grows according to plan. In a quantifiable percentage, it does attribute to the growth. Although it can’t be physically measured but it can be said that healthy children are more able to participate in education and other life learning activities, which help prepare them to become healthy and productive adults.” She added that every vaccine recommended for children are very much important. “They are very susceptible to diseases especially at a very young age. Some of the important vaccines for a child include; all three hepatitis B vaccinations, diphtheria vaccine, tetanus vaccine, acellular pertussis (DTaP) vaccine, haemophilus influenzae type b vaccine (Hib), pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV), inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV), measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .