The nominees’ list for the 2018 edition of the BET Awards has been announced and Universal Music Group (UMG) artistes are dominating the Best International Act category.Universal Music Africa has one nomination with South Africa’s DistructionBoyz, while Universal Music France has two nominations with Congolese singer FallyIpupa and rappers Booba and Niska. English singer-rapper Stefflon Don and French singer Dadju of Polydor Records, a Universal owned label, are also nominated in the Best International Act category.
  
Famous for the smash hit, Wololo, the Durban based DistructionBoyz have pushed Gqom music to the mainstream with their gold selling debut album, Gqom is the Future, which features another hit single, Omunye.
 
The BET nominations, which are selected from a pool of thousands of submissions across 20 categories, showcases some of the most gifted music makers of the past awards year. The nominations are selected by BET’s Voting Academy, which comprises fans and an esteemed group of entertainment professionals in the fields of television, film, music, social media, digital marketing, sports journalism, public relations, and the creative arts.
 
The public votes for the BET awards with an interest in all genres made by black people. Voting closes on June 1, while the show will air live on BET on Sunday, June 24, 2018, from the Microsoft Theatre, Los Angeles, California, United States. Universal Music Group (UMG) is one of the world leading music-based entertainment company, with a broad array of businesses engaged in recorded music, music publishing, merchandising and audiovisual content in more than 60 countries.
  
Featuring the most comprehensive catalog of recordings and songs across every musical genre, UMG identifies and develops artists and produces and distributes the most critically acclaimed and commercially successful music in the world.
  
Committed to artistry, innovation and entrepreneurship, UMG fosters the development of services, platforms and business models in order to broaden artistic and commercial opportunities for our artists and create new experiences for fans.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .