The Labour  Party of Nigeria (LP) heartily felicitates with the people of Nigeria on this remarkable occasion of the 2018 Democracy Day urging the citizens to be optimistic about positive developments especially at this critical period in the nation’s history. Speaking through its National Chairman, Dr Mike Omotosho, the Party admonished the working public to continue to invest their energy and skill to deepen democracy in the country as well entrench its values for the overall development of the country and its citizens. “Our new democratic journey that started since 1999 has been tortuous but our resilience as a people has enabled us to surmount the enormous challenges posed to our young democracy. “We have consolidated on rebuilding our institutions damaged by protracted military rule and we are trying to align our democratic choices to the quest for good governance, rule of law, respect for human dignity, economic empowerment and national unity, which are visible gains of our young democracy. We have so far also permeated the culture of holding periodic elections to change our leaders under largely peaceful, free and fair atmosphere making our democracy and polity even stronger and our electoral laws have helped immensely to guarantee hope that Nigeria is on the right path to propagate democracy in all ramifications”, Omotosho stated. He noted that as the embodiment and custodian of the values and aspirations of the working public, Labour Party is proud of this enviable tradition and will help the citizens to become more active to uphold the tenets of democracy in the country. “The energy of the workers will be continuously invested to highlight the people’s will to further democratize Nigeria’s economy and make the nation a bastion of development in the sub-region and across the world. “We  are not oblivious of the imperfections of our democratic order but we in the Labour Party are working arduously to galvanize Nigerians along the lines of our party’s manifesto, anchored on sound economic management,  business intelligence and industrial development to provide jobs for our teeming youth and make the party the springboard for our collective fulfilment. “Past and present political parties have largely failed to fulfil the expectations of most Nigerians, which is why as the 2019 elections draw nearer, Nigerians must align their democratic choices with the rejuvenated and rebranded LP to revamp Nigeria’s raped and battered economy. “The LP urges all Nigerians to embrace the party’s comprehensive agenda to build a more peaceful and prosperous nation”, the Party stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .