 Players of Real Madrid CF pose for a team photo prior to the UEFA Champions League semi-final first-leg football match FC Bayern Munich vs Real Madrid CF in Munich, southern Germany, on April 25, 2018: Row behind (L-R) Real Madrid’s Costa Rican goalkeeper Keylor Navas, Real Madrid’s Spanish defender Sergio Ramos, Real Madrid’s German midfielder Toni Kroos, Real Madrid’s French defender Raphael Varane, Real Madrid’s Brazilian midfielder Casemiro and Real Madrid’s Portuguese forward Cristiano Ronaldo; front row (L-R) Real Madrid’s Spanish midfielder Lucas Vazquez, Real Madrid’s Brazilian defender Marcelo, Real Madrid’s Spanish defender Dani Carvajal, Real Madrid’s Spanish midfielder Isco and Real Madrid’s Croatian midfielder Luka Modric. / AFP PHOTO / Christof STACHE  Belief and Winning mentality
After winning three of the last four Champions League, the Spanish side certainly know how to navigate the Champions League. Despite having a tough path to the finals, Real Madrid weathered every storm to get to Kiev due to their mentality. Real Madrid midfielder, Toni Kroos admitted that the side are calm and know how to navigating the Champions League. He stretched it to Los Blancos having super powers in the Champions League. The belief saw them come from behind against PSG in the first leg of the Round of 16 tie as well as the last minute winner against Juventus.  Los Blancos have their eyes trained and their hearts set on a record third consecutive Champions League trophy. Read More: Five reasons why Liverpool can win Champions League final Cristiano Ronaldo
The Champions League is Cristiano Ronaldo’s tournament, the others just come to partake in it. Ever since he won his first Champions League with Manchester United a decade ago, the forward has continually pulled down records and set down markers. He holds most of the scoring records in the Champions League but he will be keen to be the first player to score in four different finals. If Real Madrid win, he could also become the first player in the UEFA Champions League era to appear in five Champions League final victories. Ronaldo’s quality is undisputable. Liverpool’s poor defence
After going comfortably five goals ahead in the match against AS Roma, Liverpool still found a way to blight the victory after their lull in the final minutes. Roma scored two goals that gave them a bit more belief heading into the second leg. Liverpool eventually qualified but it could have ended differently because of their poor defending. Dejan Lovren does not exactly fill you with confidence as a defender while Trent-Alexander Arnold for all his commendable effort, has being picked apart by ruthless forwards. Facing off against Cristiano Ronaldo. Strength of Real Madrid’s bench
Marco Asensio and Lucas Vazquez have shown how important it is to have strong options on the bench, the duo particularly have often impacted games from the bench and are quality options that can be used to change the dynamic of a game. Gareth Bale also is a formidable option off the bench for Real Madrid. But for Liverpool injuries have caused them looking lean on the bench with their options including Dominic Solanke, Danny Ings and a yet to be fully-fit Adam Lallana. Liverpool’s options off the bench would hardly change the course of a game compared to Real Madrid’s. Jurgen Klopp’s final hoodoo
Look away now Liverpool fans because Klopp has suffered defeat in five of his last six finals. Such grim reading reads into the thought that it could be six in seven come Saturday night. His last Champions League final when he led Borussia Dortmund to the final was harrowing as Arjen Robben scored just two minutes from time to hand Bayern Munich the winner. Klopp will certainly be keen on ending his disconcerting run in cup finals which could lead to the German overcompensating.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .