  In a statement yesterday by the Kolapo Olusola Campaign Organisation (KOCO) through its Director of Media and Publicity, Lere Olayinka, it said the allegation was the height of wickedness and hatred for Nigerians working as heads of federal agencies in Ekiti State, as they were always at the receiving end of APC’s ‘politics of bitterness.’ KOCO said the party’s action was a sign that it was already smelling defeat in the July 14 election and desperately lying against credible Nigerians, who may have refused to be compromised. It stated this in reaction to APC’s allegation of ‘mutual liaisons at night meetings’ between Fayose and the Ekiti State Coordinator of the NYSC, Mrs. Nwanu Eze Ukagha. “We are not unmindful of the possibility that in their usual characteristic, the APC must have tried to induce the NYSC Director with money to do their bidding and the woman refused, thus prompting the blackmail. “We, therefore, advise that the APC should go beyond writing petitions to calling for the transfer of heads of federal agencies in Ekiti. Read More: APC debunks Fayose’s claim of plan to rig poll “They can go ahead and engineer the transfer of offices and buildings of the agencies, but that won’t prevent it from being defeated,” the statement reads. In a related development, the crisis in the Bayelsa chapter of the APC may not be over yet, as stakeholders have rejected the parallel congresses allegedly held at the instance of former Governor Timipre Sylva and Minister of State for Agriculture, Heineken Lokpobiri. The stakeholders, who met with the John Odigie-Oyegun-led National Working Committee (NWC), described the congresses involving the two political gladiators, as illegal and unknown to the party constitution. Led by Chief Nestor Ibinabo, the members accused the duo of holding parallel wards, councils and state congresses in their private homes where they wrote names of their anointed candidates to fill various party positions. They, therefore, insisted that the congresses organised by the officials from the National Secretariat and witnessed by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), remained the authentic and recognised ones in the state. Meanwhile, a Rivers State High Court in Port Harcourt has nullified APC’s wards, councils and state congresses. Some disgruntled party members had challenged the outcome of the ward congresses in the state on May 5, 2018. On this basis, the court issued an interlocutory injunction restraining the party from using the results of the congress to organise the local government congress in the state. Justice Chiwendu Nwogu nullified the result of the exercise held on May 5 and May 8, 2018 respectively. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .