  Frank, who spoke with newsmen in Abuja yesterday, said his group, led by Mr. Kawu Baraje, is already holding talks with various political groups where their interests would be well protected ahead of the 2019 polls. He debunked claims by Senator Abdullahi Adamu-led nPDP splinter group that they have not been harassed, intimidated and discriminated since the inception of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. Besides, he said the group would take a final stand if the Chief John Odigie-Oyegun-led APC failed to yield to their demands. “I want to use this opportunity to remind my party that this is the same way we were trying to correct the wrongs of the Jonathan’s government while in the PDP, but they never listened to us. We told them why we were aggrieved. Our leaders moved round the states to talk to party members to ask the government at that time to listen to our views, but at the end of the day, they refused, they ignored us, that is how we left. Read More: Oni threatens to quit APC if his supporters are victimised “When we left, we join the APC and that was how today, we are enjoying this so-called change agenda we are talking about. So, if today, 95 per cent of us, who came from the new PDP are aggrieved and they feel they are going to undermine us, or they are going to ignore our group, so be it. “But at the end of the day, we believe we are going to take a decision that will benefit the Nigerian people because we believe that democracy should be all-inclusive. Democracy should not be a situation where when you speak the truth, you will be harassed; you will be intimidated and so on. “Today, everyone that is being harassed within the APC came from the new PDP. We have not seen anybody from the ACN or the CPC or the ANPP or the section of APGA that join us that is being intimidated or harassed. It is clear. So, we are not going to be intimidated,” he said. In another development, some stalwarts of the PDP and its pro-group, Grassroots Development Initiative (GDI), have said no intimidation by the security forces or anybody would stop the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, from being re-elected into office next year. The immediate past Publicity Secretary of PDP in the state, Samuel Nwanosike, who spoke on behalf of others, said Governor Wike should be allowed to contest and complete his eight years in office. He spoke yesterday in Port Harcourt at the official reception of hundreds of alleged APC supporters, who defected to the PDP in Rumuola, Obio/Akpor Local Council of the state. Nwanosike added that the PDP and GDI had endorsed Wike to continue his developmental works and vowed to mobilise supporters in all the 23 local councils of the state to ensure his victory at the polls. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .