  During a meeting at the weekend in Lagos with the Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta and Coordinator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme, Prof. Charles Dokubo, the ex-agitators harped on peaceful environment for robust development. The Special Assistant (Media) to the presidential aide, Murphy Ganagana, in a statement, yesterday, stressed the need for knotty issues to be resolved for sustainable peace in the region and the nation at large. “ We have got something wrong, and this needs to be corrected. There are some things that we need to present to the Federal Government. We are ready to support this government. We are ready to make peace in our kingdoms. But how can we keep the peace when you don’t make provisions for leaders of the ex-agitators,” Ajube was quoted as saying on behalf of the former freedom fighters. He pledged that they would take responsibility for peace and security in their zones provided the Federal Government guarantees their welfare. Read More: Dickson seeks new FG approach to insecurity in Niger Delta “We are going to support you, and by your appointment, the Federal Government is expecting all Niger Delta people to come together and support it. “That is what they expect from you, and we are going to give you the support. Anything concerning your office, we will follow you,” he added. In his remarks, Richard Akinaka who represented Ateke Tom, said the people of Rivers State, particularly the Okrika ethnic group, identify with Dokubo’s vision and have resolved to realign the amnesty programme with its original mandate of bettering the lot of the people. His words: “I will like to thank you for the wonderful thing you have done, especially for creating a special unit in the Amnesty Office to take care of issues relating to leaders of ex-agitators. That was a brilliant one. You are the first occupant that has done that. The day you come to Okrika, you will see the crowd that will come and support you.” Dokubo, however, harped on sustainable peace in the area and the nation in general. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .