• LOC boss promises world-class facilities
About 5,000 athletes and 500 coaches are expected to feature in the 14th West African University Games (WAUG), which will hold at the University of Port Harcourt, chairman of the Local Organising Committee (LOC), Prof Regina Ogali has said. The Games, which is tagged ‘Unique Uniport,’ will run from October 31 to November 12, with 400 technical officials expected to officiate.The LOC boss told The Guardian that 85 universities from 16 West African countries are expected to participate in the Games. “As we speak, a total of 60 universities have already been registered. We have a total number of 16 sporting events on parade for the Games, and we are going to showcase World-class facilities, which we have already put in place inside Uniport sports complex. “We are expecting over one million spectators to be part of the Games, and it will run for 13 days. It will be a memorable games for both foreign athletes and those in Nigeria because we already have a Games village, where there will be non-stop music and dance. We will showcase the original trademark, which the Niger Delta region is known for,” Ogali stated. A member of the LOC, Prof Ken Anugweje disclosed yesterday that apart from hockey, all other 15 sporting activities will take place inside the Uniport sports complex. “The hockey event will hold at the Adokie Amiesimaka stadium. I can tell you that Uniport is set for the Games,” he stated. The Vice-chancellor of Uniport, Ndowa Lale said the institution believes in the symbiosis of scholarship and sports, adding that the WAUG Games is aimed at fostering greater friendship among youths of the West African sub-region. “It also provides an opportunity for West African universities to promote good health through sporting activities. The mission of the University of Port Harcourt is to use the WAUG Games to prove to other universities in the West African sub-region that they are the masters when it comes to sporting activities.”The 13th edition of the WAUG Games took place at the University of Ilorin in 2012 with 56 universities in attendance.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .