 Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar raises his hands in victory after he won the presidential ticket of the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) during the national convention in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, on October 7, 2018. Former vice president Atiku Abubakar will challenge incumbent Muhammadu Buhari for the Nigerian presidency early next year after winning the opposition Democratic Peoples Party primary, an AFP reporter at the vote said on October 7, 2018. Abubakar, 71, won 1,532 votes, trouncing his main rival Aminu Tambuwal, the governor of northern Sokoto state who scored 693 votes at the party’s convention in the southeastern oil hub of Port Harcourt.<br />PIUS UTOMI EKPEI / AFP  A statement issued by its founder and President, Dr. Frederick Fasehun, said the PDP National Convention in Port Harcourt, Rivers State at the weekend made a popular choice in electing Atiku as its flag bearer.However, the Re–elect Buhari Movement (RBM) has congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari on the endorsement of his candidature by the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the 2019 polls. The group said Buhari stands a better chance of defeating Atiku at the poll.In a statement issued by its Convener, Emmanuel Umohinyang, RBM described Buhari’s endorsement as a reward for good performance in the last three years. Fasehun added that PDP has done the needful by giving Nigerians a formidable opposition candidate, who is not only capable of giving APC a good fight, but also stands a good chance of winning the presidential election.He further urged the other PDP presidential aspirants to close ranks and support Atiku for the final contest next year. Meanwhile, the Atiku Care Foundation (ACF), a grassroots charity group, has expressed gratitude to the PDP delegates for electing Atiku as the partys presidential candidate for the 2019 general elections. In a statement issued by its National Chairman, Aliyu Bin Abbas, it resolved to hit the ground running by reaching out to the less privileged in society, which they stressed, has been Atiku’s way of life. “We are exceptionally grateful to the PDP delegates who heeded our rigorous and fervent appeal to ensure that our party elects a candidate who has the capacity, intensity and nationwide appeal that can withstand Buhari in the 2019 elections. “We had enjoined delegates to look beyond personal and regional sentiments while making this choice,” it stated. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .