Picture taken on January 15, 2012 in Lille, northern France, of drug capsules. AFP PHOTO: PHILIPPE HUGUEN AFP/Getty Images The Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has confirmed that a Chinese drug in Nigeria markets contains human flesh. SON made the confirmation when it received a letter sent by the National Intelligence Agency (NIA) on the unnamed Chinese drug reported to be made from human flesh. The Intelligence Agency had alerted several relevant agencies including SON, National Agency for Food Drugs and Administration Control (NAFDAC) and the Nigerian Customs Service on the Chinese drug in circulation. Efforts made by The Guardian to verify the name of the drug were not successful, as several calls and messages got no response. It was not the first time that drugs from fetuses and human flesh have filtered into markets. In 2011, Chinese officials launched investigations into the production of drugs made from dead fetuses. The capsules were disguised as stamina boosters and some people believed them to be a panacea for disease. Investigations also revealed that thousands of the same drugs were first confiscated in South Korea in 2012. According to investigations by the NIA, the capsules were filled with powdered flesh from dead babies whose bodies were chopped into small pieces and dried on stoves before being turned into powder in North Eastern China. “The South Korean Customs Service, on 30th September 2018 revealed that it has seized 2,751 Chinese drugs/capsules, containing human remains from foetus, infants and flesh imported into the country by some Chinese nationals,” NIA said in a statement. “The manufacturers claim that the drugs/capsules can boost stamina, cure cancer, diabetes and some other terminal diseases.” “The capsules were smuggled in suitcases and through international mail.” The agency revealed that South Korean Ministry of Food and Drug Safety indicated that 18.7 billion viruses, including hepatitis B virus were found in the capsules. It also stressed that the making of the human remain drugs and consuming them are crimes against humanity, which can also lead to serious health challenges. The Nigeria government agency then called on other health related agencies to enlighten Nigerians to be cautious of such drugs. “However, it is important for all relevant health regulatory agencies in Nigeria especially the Federal Ministry of Health, NAFDAC, NDLEA and SON to sensitize Nigerians of this development and warn them of the inherent dangers of patronizing drugs imported from China.” “The Customs Service, NIPOST and other mail delivery services should also step up monitoring of cargoes and packages with drugs imported into Nigeria.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .