 Casting a vote during Nigerian elections. Photo The Guardian  Man is a man not at times of comfort but when the crescendo effects strikes. The effect tainted President George Bush’s plans for the United States but he rose up to the occasion of 9/11at least without unnecessary brickbat.  History might be kind to him one day. A presidential aspirant and his partner couldn’t manage crescendo effects. They volt-faced when it came and, went to opposite parties and began to sing swan songs, those parties they dumped became flotsam and jetsam in their eyes. One journeyed from PDP to ACN to PDP to APC and then back to PDP. Darn!  His partner swore to his protégée (Odumegwu Ojukwu) that he would never leave APGA but did after his tour of duty and even attempted to unseat a candidate of APGA that he installed in an election but failed woefully. What impressions have these two left in the minds of young Nigerians who should look up to them as role models and politics as a sport. Certainly it cannot be trust, compassion, stability and hope. How can Simon Abah trust people who cannot keep agreements, who cannot say in simple terms what gets in the way of agreements, doing what they say they will do? The promises during campaigns wouldn’t be kept. These two are only interested in making
history. Managing trust is how people respond to crescendo effects, which must come, but I see them reacting as they have done  always instead of responding unperturbedly, I see them talking and telling, blaming instead of listening and learning, the trademark of leaders. Again we may miss the chance to see big-picture players in 2019 that know the needs of followers and solve them. Those kinds who unlike the sitting president know how to communicate from the heart to the people they lead. This lack of basic information sharing is the reason the performance of the serving president suffers but he doesn’t care diddly-squat. No-wonder Nigerians have pulled back from him, including this present writer, because they are disengaged and are beginning to lose their sense of pride. Nigerians should be, because their experiences necessary for engagement have been discounted by people who assume wrongly that people’s power isn’t important. I may take them seriously if they acknowledge why they left their original parties, and to recap promises and align expectations of Nigerians. But can they when they haven’t been able to manage their emotions in the past and to be emotionally available to Nigerians when they assume governmental responsibilities in future? Nigerians need aspirants’ and persons who know exactly what they are going through. People who ask what needs to be done for Nigeria and what can they offer Nigeria. Men and women who know what leading people mean and how to restore calm in moments of crises, men who believe in the collective whole and not advance positions for self. I don’t see that in these persons wanting to lead me. I would have if I knew their values, skills, passions and purpose other than to grab power for themselves, family members and their cronies. These men cannot defeat the present president and it will sadden me because I want the president in office, out of office because of his misleading governing philosophy especially on security.  They might defeat him if it is fated and either way, we are doomed.God help and save Nigeria, though God is not a politician.
Simon Abah wrote from Abuja  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .