 At the announcement of Peter Obi as vice president candidate for Atiku  Not minding that the former Vice President Atiku Abubakar’s emergence as Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) standard bearer for the February 16, 2019 presidential election was hatched in an atmosphere of a transparent primary, it resonated with the quiet agitation for the return of power to the Northeast. In matters of national politics and leadership selection, the northern part of Nigeria seems to have an edge over its southern counterpart. This trait played out not only during the recent PDP Special Convention in Port Harcourt, but has been amply demonstrated in previous presidential nominations. During the second republic, the defunct National Party of Nigeria (NPN) was on the verge of conducting a runoff between Alhaji Shehu Shagari and Dr. Maitama Sule, only for Sule to concede, stressing that unlike the southern politicians, “we in the North believe that power comes from Allah.” That sealed it and Shagari, who became NPN’s standard bearer, picked Dr. Alex Ekwueme, who had lost the governorship primary in Anambra State to Chief Christian Chukwuma Onoh, as running mate.
 
In the Fourth Republic, the popular sentiment was that the Southwest should be allowed to produce the president in a national effort to mitigate the annulment of the June 12, 1993 presidential election believed to have been won by Chief Moshood Abiola,But while the former leader of G-34 that metamorphosed into PDP, Ekwueme, did not repudiate the emergence of Chief Olusegun Obasanjo based on the national sentiment, the situation within the Alliance for Democracy (AD) was explosive.  Foolhardiness of the South
AFTER its defeat in the 2015 election, PDP went through a lot of upheavals in an effort to regain its stature and composure. While it took the former Special Adviser to former President Goodluck Jonathan, Ahmed Gulak’s litigation to interrogate the status of acting national chairman of the party’s leadership, the overriding influences of outgoing Ekiti State governor, Ayo Fayose, and his Rivers State counterpart, Nyesom Wike, led to the imposition of Senator Ali Modu Sheriff as another acting national chairman, without considering the inputs of northeast stakeholders.
  
No politician from the North or even specifically the North-East attacked Sheriff. Rather, they waited for the PDP national convention to address the issue in line with the party’s constitution. Expectedly even when Sheriff wanted to play the absolute leader by truncating the national convention midway, the party caucus set up the Senator Ahmed Makarfi-led National Caretaker Committee.
 
Conversely, when the Supreme Court delivered the final verdict on the leadership tussle and PDP fixed December 9 and 10, 2017 for its elective convention, the zoning of the post of national chairman to the South stoked intense political divisions and agitations.
  
Despite their agitation that the post be micro-zoned to the Southwest, the plethora of aspirants in the race vitiated the potency of the zone’s case. All entreaties on the aspirants to settle for a consensus choice so as not to reduce the chances of South West getting the major votes were not heeded.Close to the convention day, it dawned on the aspirants that the South-South, which paraded only two aspirants, was on the verge of clinching the party’s top job. However, the belated decision by some of the chairmanship aspirants from Southwest to step down for Prof. Tunde Adeniran at the convention ground failed to yield maximum effect. Angered and feeling cheated by the outcome of the election,  Adeniran and his supporters quit the party. But the harm had been done. Presidential politics
WHEN the PDP released modalities for primary elections to select candidates for the 2019 general election, most Nigerians and party members expected that as happened during the chairmanship election, the issue of micro-zoning would rear its head and scuttle the crucial exercise.With quiet diplomacy and overwhelming sense of group interest, politicians from the North East started talking to themselves with a view to ensuring there was no surge of presidential aspirants. Based on such discussions, the last man standing, Governor Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo, was adopted in principle as the possible consensus candidate.
 
However, along the line the incumbent, President Buhari, announced his intention to seek a second term in office. And viewed against the background of the president’s decision to withdraw his support for Chief John Odigie-Oyegun in preference for the immediate past governor of Edo State, Adams Oshiomhole, the permutations within the PDP changed.  
 
The party started rethinking about its presidential aspirants against the backcloth of ability and capacity to beat President Buhari. PDP stakeholders also discovered that the campaign for youth takeover was not cutting much ice in the electoral environment, which dictated that Dankwambo’s education and youth were not sufficient enough to trounce Buhari.
  
In the midst of the search for essential qualities needed from the ideal PDP presidential candidate, many aspirants from the North West joined the race. But the dynamics changed when former Vice President Atiku Abubakar left APC and again pitched political tent with PDP.Although he rejoined PDP shortly before the party’s elective national convention, and as such could not substantially influence the outcome of the chairmanship election, one of the first things Atiku did in the light of his presidential ambition was to meet with Gombe State governor, with a view to making Dankwambo to scale down on his presidential ambition.
  
It should be noted that Atiku made similar shuttle visits to other presidential aspirants, including the North West political giant, Sule Lamido and former caretaker chairman, Senator Ahmed Makarfi. And while the discussions lasted, the idea of micro-zoning to the North East remained mute. Picking a candidate
But for the decision of former Kano State governor, Mallam Ibrahim Shekarau, to leave PDP for the APC, the situation at the PDP Special Convention and presidential primary in Port Harcourt would have presented 11 aspirants from North West against two from North East.At the convention, the aspirants were allotted three to five minutes to address delegates and make the last pitch for votes. The common strain in their speeches was that power comes from God, with appeals on the consciences of the delegates without employing trigger words or subtle threats.
 
At the end of balloting and collation of votes, the announcement of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar as the winner received the unanimous approval of both the contestants and ordinary members of the party. Without knowing it, the cause of micro-zoning was served elegantly in the capsule of merit and credibility of process.Three days ago, the party completed the last lap of choosing its presidential standard bearer. The beneficiary of the party’s mandate, Atiku named former Anambra State governor, Mr. Peter Obi, as his running mate.
 
Unwittingly the choice of Obi satisfied the age long desire for a Northeast/Southeast vertical alliance that was last witnessed in the first republic under the late Prime Minister, Abubakar Tafawa Balewa and Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe of Northern Peoples Congress (NPC) and National Council of Nigerian Citizens (NCNC) respectively.  
  
In a chat with The Guardian on the development, Information Commissioner for Ebonyi State, Dr. Emmanuel Onwe, agreed that the evolution of Nigeria into two parallel political blocs has hovered over the national political firmament for at least a decade. He observed: “The Northwest/Southwest axis has been on the ascendancy since General Obasanjo handed over the reins of civilian power to a scion of Sokoto in 1979. But, it never calcified into a recognised political bloc that could weigh significantly in the equation of civilian power domiciliation until 2015, when President Muhammadu Buhari rode on its crest to State House. To retain his presidency he needs to sustain this historically unlikely coalition.”
  
On the other hand Onwe remarked that the Northeast/Southeast parallel political line, which stands in opposition to the former has a much longer, but chequered history, recalling, “The premiership of Alhaji Tafawa Balewa was only made possible through the eastern alliance. The eastern political hemisphere drew the first blood.”
  
While expressing the view that “this early promise was aborted and no civilian head of the Nigerian government has ever emerged from the eastern political hemisphere, so to speak till this day,” Onwe, an alumnus of the London School of Economics described the emergent Atiku-Obi combination as an intriguing political event that excites any historical mind.  “Let’s wait and see how it will turn out,” he added. Enter the Southeast folly
SURPRISINGLY, the filling of the flipside of the presidential ticket let loose the divisive tendencies, which have over the years defined the politics of the south. The delay in selecting Atiku’s running mate, part of which had to do with considerations for the 2023 presidential race, as earlier reported by The Guardian, sparked needless controversies.  No doubt, angry denunciations have continued to trail the attempt by the South-East PDP stakeholders to repudiate the choice of Obi as presidential running mate. In Ebonyi a member of the party, Aisha Edward, wrote a scathing letter to the governor titled, “Displeasure On Your Recent Embarrassing Statement On the Choice of Mr. Peter Obi As Running Mate.”
  
Edward reminded the governor that his ticket for a second term was an automatic gesture from the party, regretting that while encomiums and applause continue to trail the selection of Obi as Atiku’s running mate, “worrisome and disturbing utterances were emanating from your office. Your recent insensitive and provocative statements is very capable of causing bad blood between both sister states, and not only that, it has ridiculed the Igbo nation before the eyes of Nigeria and portrayed us in bad light as divided and selfish.“Your reason that Igbo leaders were not consulted before the choice of Peter Obi as VP was reached is not only politically naïve, but misleading. Please sir, who and who are the Igbo leaders to be consulted?” Also, the leadership of National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN) described the move to challenge Obi’s nomination as “a childish move against the collective interest of Igbo youths in particular and Igbo in general.”In a statement signed by Nonyelu Williams Onyibor, (South-East Vice President), Chukwuemeka Isidore, (Chairman, Chairmen Forum, South-East) and Smart Uwakwe, (South-East Organising Secretary), NYCN declared: “This useless plot is being hatched by the Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi, who has severally shown that he is working for Buhari. It is on record that Dave Umahi is the only governor in the South-East who has invited Buhari severally to Ebonyi, even to the extent of naming a project after him.
 
“It is quite disheartening that at a time like this, when Nigerians from all walks of life are clamouring for change, someone from South-East, out of his selfish interest, is trying to become a cog on the wheel of progress of the nation by mobilizing his cohorts to fight against a divinely guided choice in the person of Mr. Peter Obi.”
 
While condemning the gang up as a re-enactment of dichotomy politics that defined Igbo politics in the days of Anambra State, International Society for Civil Liberties and Rule of Law (Intersociety), said the politics of ‘wawa’ versus ‘agbaenu’ has been allowed to rear its ugly head again in national politics. In a statement signed by Emeka Umeagbalasi, the group said notwithstanding that the issue of running mate should not be subject to zonal contemplation, “it is also on irrefutable record that Imo and Ebonyi States have respectively produced Senate President of Nigeria in recent years.”Intersociety regretted that the politics of pecuniary interest is also to blame, saying, “politics in the South-East or Igbo heartland is roundly monetised or utterly transactional to the extent that stark illiterate moneybags and questionable billionaires are now in charge.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .