 (FILES) In this file photo taken on December 15, 2014, general manager of Alarab TV, Jamal Khashoggi, looks on during a press conference in the Bahraini capital Manama. – US President Donald Trump said October 11, 2018 he was not yet prepared to limit arms sales to Saudi Arabia over journalist Jamal Khashoggi’s disappearance, but he faced mounting pressure from concerned American lawmakers. Saudi Arabia is one of the world’s largest arms purchasers, with most of them coming from the United States.Khashoggi, a contributor to The Washington Post, vanished more than a week ago during a visit to the Saudi consulate in Istanbul. Turkish government sources say he was murdered there, a claim Riyadh denies. (Photo by MOHAMMED AL-SHAIKH / AFP)  “Turkey will reveal whatever had happened. Nobody should ever doubt about it,” said Omer Celik, spokesman for the ruling Justice and Development Party (AKP), the Anadolu news agency reported. Khashoggi, a Washington Post contributor and critic of the Islamic petro-state’s powerful crown prince, was last seen on October 2 entering his country’s consulate in Istanbul. Riyadh’s admission came after persistent claims by the Saudi authorities that the journalist had left the consulate alive. Turkish police and prosecutors this week searched both the consulate as well as the consul’s residence in Istanbul. Celik said it was Turkey’s “debt of honour” to reveal what happened. “We are not accusing anyone in advance but we don’t accept anything to remain covered (up),” he said. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Friday night spoke with Saudi King Salman and the two agreed to continue cooperation in the probe. In public, Erdogan and top government figures have remained extremely cautious, often referring to a prosecutors’ investigation and stopping short of pinning the blame on Saudi Arabia. Staff members of the Saudi Arabian consulate in Istanbul testified to prosecutors Friday as part of the probe.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .