Beauty treatments and augmentations are aimed at accentuating and enhancing a feature of the body to make it more attractive and appealing. Unfortunately, a particular beauty enhancement has gone wrong and has caused death instead. Brazilian butt lift[BBL] is a cosmetic operation in which fat is taken from one part of the body and injected into the buttocks.
The British Association of Aesthetic Plastic Surgeons (Baaps) has said it is the most dangerous cosmetic operation to undergo. But this warning has not in anyway deterred individuals to venture into having the surgery done. With celebrities going for enhancement, it has made it more popular. But the procedure is expensive and people seek cheaper prices and hence go to other countries to assess it. Kim Kardashian. Photo: New idea In August, 29-year-old Leah Cambridge died while undergoing a BBL operation in Turkey. A second British woman in her late 20s has also died and an enquiry into her death will soon be made. Gerard Lambe, consultant plastic surgeon explained: “It has the highest death rate of all procedures due to the risk of injecting fat into large veins in the buttocks, that can travel to the heart or brain.” A 23-year-old woman who does not want to be named said the surgery scarred her for life as her buttocks kept leaking from infected holes after undergoing surgery in Turkey. Three months after the procedure, infected holes appeared on her buttocks. “I couldn’t walk properly for ages,” she said. “To be honest, when the holes came it was better as the fat was leaking out, which made it possible to walk again.” She said her buttocks were leaking for three months, “soaking all my clothes”. She added: “It smelled. I had to bandage it up every day. “I honestly wish I could go back. I was happy with my body before. And now I paid a stupid amount of money to look like this.” So many women have complained of complications after visiting Turkey to get the butt lift yet more people have expressed interest in getting a butt lift. Kim Kardashian West and Tonto Dikeh are celebrities that have had their butts augmented.