 Kaduna State governor Nasir El-Rufai PHOTO: TWITTER/GOVERNOR KADUNA  A statement yesterday by Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Media Publicity, Samuel Aruwan, said: “From (today), Monday, October 29, 2018, the curfew is relaxed from 6.00 a.m. to 5.00 p.m. daily. Residents of Kaduna metropolis, Kasuwan Magani, Kajuru and Kateri, can now join the people of Kachi in having free movement during day time hours. “Banks and markets are expected to reopen and deliver services as usual. The Kaduna State Government has also requested the airlines and the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) to promptly resume normal services to Kaduna. “Night time curfew hours will continue to be enforced from 5.00 p.m. to 6.00 a.m. until further notice. The Kaduna State Government urges residents to remain peaceful, law-abiding and vigilant.” However, the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) has advised residents of the state to embrace peace for the sake of progress and development while condemning the killing of the traditional ruler of Agom Adara that instigated the third crisis. A statement by the ACF National Publicity Secretary, Alhaji Mohammad Ibrahim Biu, said: “The Forum is shocked, grieved and sad with the news of the gruesome murder of Agom Adara, His Royal Majesty, Dr. Maiwada Galadima, who was kidnapped in the wake of the Kasuwan Magani crisis in Kaduna State. “We urge the government to not only strengthen its peace building process, but also sustain it to ensure durable peace in the state..” However, Southern Kaduna indigenes and other stakeholders have condemned the comments made by Governor Nasir El-Rufai that he will demolish and relocate Gonin Gora community if mob attacks and killings of innocent people plying Abuja-Kaduna highway would not be guaranteed. In another development, the apex Islamic body in the North,  Jamatul Nasir Islam (JNI), has called on the federal and state governments to relocate troubling communities away from highways for the safety of road commuters. In a statement by the body’s Secretary-General, Dr. Khaleed Abubakar, he said such approach becomes imperative as militias  unabatedly venture into blockage of major inter-state roads linking various states and Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to hack road commuters to death. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .