 Participants at the Annual Walk for Nature organised by Nigerian Conservation Foundation (NCF) in collaboration with Lagos State Government  He stated this during the 2018 Annual Walk for Nature, held at the State House, Marina, Lagos organised by Nigerian Conservation Foundation (NCF) in collaboration with Lagos State Government. The Governor stressed the need for sustainable living and conservation of natural resources. Represented by the Commissioner for the Environment, Mr. Babatunde Durosinmi-Etti, he stated that it was imperative to combat the impacts of pollution on our ecosystem, its biodiversity and human health by shifting to a more conscious approach to consumption and interaction with the environment. “The theme of this year’s annual walk for nature, ‘beat pollution, live a sustainable lifestyle’ is very appropriate in view of the ever increasing pollution levels in our society due to human activities”, he said. Ambode urged the people to optimise the use of natural resources and exert minimal impact on the environment, adding that both government and the citizenry must work together to enforce policies that would prevent people from embarking on activities that could have negative impact on the environment. The Governor said that the concerted efforts of his administration at greening, landscaping and provision of scenic gardens and conservation parks were geared towards achieving sustainable development for the benefit of over 23 million citizens of Lagos State. The Lagos State Governor noted that the impact of pollution on the ecosystem could not be overemphasised as it affected the planet through the food we eat, the water we drink and the air we breathe. According to him, “the annual Walk for Nature is a wakeup call to all Lagosians to rise in defense of the environment and collaborate to address the unconscionable pollution of the environment by focusing on attitude that despoil the land.” His words: “Nature has blessed us with the resources that we need to survive; it is up to us to optimise their usage and conserve for posterity, so that we do not compromise the benefits of future generations” The governor urged Lagosians to refrain from activities that could cause pollution and degradation of the environment and enjoined all to advocate the culture of re-use, recycle and clean production. Earlier, the President, Board of Trustess of NCF, Chief Philip Asiodu urged government at all levels to prioritise sanctions as a means for controlling environmental and waste pollution in the country.
   
According to him, such measure could be a viable strategy for promoting environmental sustainability amid increasing dirty states of cities in Nigeria. Asiodu maintained that pollution has become a major challenge in the world mega cities, hence the need to sensitise the general public on sustaining best practices especially on the use of plastic materials which litter every nooks and crannies including the oceans, thus affecting the survival marine lives.
   
He lamented the disappearance of sanitary inspectors whose responsibility was to apply sanctions on anyone who violate the environment through indiscriminate spread of dirty materials and living in an un-kept premise and called for the return of the inspectors for a safe and healthy environment. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .