Ajimobi wins Oyo South APC senatorial ticket The Ekiti State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday bowed to pressure from the aggrieved aspirants by accepting direct primary option to elect candidates for the state and National Assembly elections in 2019.The party had on Tuesday took a decision to adopt indirect primary contrary to the directive of the National Working Committee (NWC), a development that had led to a stalemate in the conduct of the primaries. A statement yesterday by the party’s State Publicity Secretary, Mr. Ade Ajayi, said the primary had been shifted till today (Thursday) and that the party would now adopt direct system for the primary to be held across the 177 wards in the state.He said: “The National Working Committee (NWC) has humbly directed that the mode of the primary will be direct and it will be held on October 4 across the 177 wards. “We thereby enjoin all party members to participate in the exercise.”Meanwhile, Oyo State Governor Abiola Ajimobi has clinched the APC ticket for Oyo South Senatorial District in the primary election conducted by the Chief Ademola Seriki-led electoral panel.He defeated Dr. Fola Akinosun by 2,659 to 168 votes. Seriki said that the exercise, which started around 6:30 p.m., was delayed due the late arrival of voting materials from the national headquarters of the party in Abuja. The senator currently representing the district, Mr. Soji Akanbi, did not take part in the exercise for undisclosed reasons. Ajimobi said: “I look forward to going back to the Red Chamber to contribute my quota to the national debate and the progress of the nation.” However, Akinosun, who was present at the beginning of the exercise, left the venue for undisclosed reasons before the final collation of the results.He had earlier promised to abide by the results of the primary on the condition that it was free and fair, adding that he decided to throw his hat into the ring as a free citizen and qualified member of the APC irrespective of the stature of his co-contestant. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .