 Etim Ekong  From time immemorial, there have been persecution and false teaching with many heretics. It is observed that the most visible challenge to Christianity today is posed by urbanisation and secularisation of societies. In our generation, the world is divided than ever before. Christians in some quarters are preaching denominationalism instead of the gospel. Some who claim to be pastors have no Church background and are unfamiliar with the message of the gospel, and so will not listen to the message of the Church. Proliferation of Churches poses another challenge to the Christian faith. Some members of the new generation Churches segregate and this brings about division in the body of Christ. In a divided world with different mentalities on how to approach the “Ultimate Reality”, if Christians are to make positive impact wherever they may be, it will have to be what St. Paul described as “all things to all people” (1 Cor. 9:19-23). Jesus was accused of eating with tax collectors and sinners. He neither avoided nor condemned those who were different from Him. Jesus Christ should be the model for Christian mission. The Church, with all the necessary technology should be able to package and market the gospel of one hope. This can only be done, when we know that Church’s Mission comprises more than ecclesial and social issues.The Church is about God and the love of God, which is not limited to those who do good and live righty, but which invites and begs us daily to turn to Him Who first loved us (Cf. 1 John 4:19). The Church can only act as a bridge in a divided world, if Church functionaries abhor fabricated theology, liturgies and traditions. To avoid division among Christians, let Ecumenism be the strength of the Church.Jesus’ prayer for all believers in the Gospel seems to be an inescapable choice for most ecumenical events. “That they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us: that the world may believe that thou hast sent me… that they may be one, even as we are one” (John 17:21-22). The prayer has a far wider relevance than inter-Church relationships. Central are the themes of the mutual indwelling of Jesus and His father and their unity. John 17:21ff challenges the “oneness” within our Churches and our congregations. In a world where there is the never-ending gap between the rich and the poor, a divided Church cannot advocate ethnic unity and national unity. A divided Church cannot carry out mission in a divided world. “Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation; and every city or house divided against itself shall not stand” (Matt. 12:25). For the Church to have a voice, it must be united. Unless the Church itself is significantly different from the world and has something particularly to offer, it cannot bring healing to a divided world.
Contact: mcndioceseofdline@yahoo.com
ekongetim@gmail.com
08073138935  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .