NIPCO company Energy solutions provider and oil marketer, NIPCO Plc, has attributed its strong performance in the petroleum industry space to strategic growth drives. It also says investments in capacity building has helped it to survive the country’s challenging business environment. The Managing Director of the company, Sanjay Teotia, disclosed this at the performance management workshop for NIPCO staff members in Lagos. He said the surge in capacity investment was to: “Awaken and cultivate new learning culture in staff members not only to enable the company survive in the challenging business environment but to also grow stronger in an organic manner.” Stating that the performance management is a crucial tool in employee performance, Teotia maintained that the learning programme which cuts across all cadre of the workforce, was part of the company’s human capacity development programmes. The programme was themed, “Building effective performance culture to overcome future challenges.” He said: “We had realised that prioritising continuous learning and development of human capacity is imperative for the success of our organisation, hence our decision to always put together a refresher programme on PMP. “A joint and collaborative effort between the employees and their bosses will generate positive and constructive feedback that will improve an employee accomplishment which will in turn increase efficiency, productivity, improve balance sheet and increase employee satisfaction.” He said the theme of this year’s performance workshop was very apt in view of the challenges in the sector occasioned by changing business realities. “Management approval of the training is largely predicated on our resolve to continue to develop the capacities of our employees to meet the challenges of the future and motivate the employees by creating a sense of direction with their involvement in the process of managing their performance thereby making their assessment, reward and recognition transparent,” he added. Human capacity development, the NIPCO’s helmsman said, was cardinal to the management team in keeping employees up to date in all aspects of their engagement. “The company is convinced that the success of any organisation depends largely on how properly equipped its employees are in terms overcoming challenges within stipulated behavioral framework which will in the end bring about the development of the company,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .