 An electoral official counts votes for the presidential ticket of the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) during the party’s national convention in Port Harcourt, Rivers State on October 7, 2018. – Nigeria’s main opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has picked Abubakar to challenge President Muhammadu Buhari who is seeking a second term in presidential polls scheduled for February 2019. (Photo by PIUS UTOMI EKPEI / AFP)  The time has now come, for the PDP to actively move forward and keep the economic blueprints, painstakingly researched and put together by their candidate on the front burner. The clamour for restructuring and decentralising the system which will ensure a robust and competitive development of the six geopolitical zones of the country has heightened to the point at which the continued survival and existence of this marriage called Nigeria is dependent on it.  Being a product of the benevolence of American Peace Corps, Atiku Abubakar is in the best place to implement UNESCO’s benchmark on education funding. The recommendation states that 26% of the nation’s budget should go into funding education which we believe will neutralize the ranks of the Boko Haram sect thereby building on the legacies of the former president, Goodluck Jonathan in the provision of Almajiri schools. Education gives the child a fundamental basis to build upon to cater to their future and their society at large. One must readily commend the efforts of Tambuwal in the provision of 29% of the 2016 state budget. It is a worthy legacy the PDP should build upon. More funds need to be allocated to the research institutes which will, in turn, encourage our scientists to remain in the country. One major pain is the issue of capital flight as Nigeria even with the massive availability of manpower is yet to undergo her first industrial revolution. The school curriculum must be rejigged to address the challenges confronting the nation as people. It will be a great cause, to imbibe the beliefs of the late premier, Obafemi Awolowo in the provision of free quality basic education to children across the country. This is far better than the shambolic school feeding programme currently being run by the Buhari administration.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .