 2018 Benz A-Class Edition  In addition, Mercedes-Benz certified its entire fleet for Europe according to the Worldwide Harmonised Light Vehicle Test Procedure (WLTP) standard with effect as of September 1. Certified vehicles are already on their way to the retailers, but despite the ongoing strong demand, it was not possible to fulfil all customers’ wishes already in September, the manufacturer said in a statement. Compared with the best September for unit sales achieved last year, sales were also impacted by delays in certification in some international markets and by model changes. In a highly competitive environment, the brand with the three-pointed star maintained its market leadership as the premium brand with the highest number of new registrations in September in the markets were UK, Italy, France, Russia, Switzerland, Portugal, Sweden, Turkey, Japan, Australia, the USA and Mexico, among others. Board Member, Management of Daimler AG responsible for Mercedes-Benz Cars Marketing and Sales, Britta Seeger, said: “I am delighted that Mercedes-Benz has maintained the high level of prior-year sales in the first nine months of the year despite the challenges we faced in the third quarter. It is our goal to ensure that our customers can enjoy receiving their new vehicles as soon as possible – and this is exactly what our teams are currently working on intensively,” stated “With the GLE, we presented the latest model of our most successful SUV ever to the public at the Paris Motor Show. Mercedes-Benz SUVs have been in the fast lane with our customers since the beginning of the year, with over 610,000 units sold worldwide.” Mercedes-Benz unit sales by region and market 
In Europe, Mercedes-Benz sold 91,609 vehicles in September and a total of 688,956 units in the first nine months of the year. In Germany, the domestic market, Mercedes-Benz delivered 22,780 cars with the star last month and 217,943 between January to September. In Spain, Sweden, Poland, Denmark and Hungary, more cars with the star were sold than ever before in the first nine months of a year. In the Asia-Pacific region, sales reached a new record of 714,598 units in the first nine months. In September, 75,414 customers received their new cars with the three-pointed star. In China, the biggest market, a new record was set for a September with sales of 54,632 cars. A total of 500,707 vehicles were delivered to customers there in the first nine months of the year, more than ever before in that period. Mercedes-Benz achieved sales records for the first nine months also in Thailand and Malaysia. In the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) region, 31,273 vehicles were delivered to customers last month.From January to September, unit sales totalled 271,944 Mercedes-Benz passenger cars. In the United States, 26,169 vehicles were handed over to customers in September and 225,384 in the first nine months of the year. Mercedes-Benz unit sales by model 
With the SUVs, a new record was set for period under review. Worldwide, a total of 612,186 SUVs with the star were delivered, equivalent to an increase of 3.4 per cent in unit sales of the GLA, GLC, GLC Coupé, GLE, GLE Coupé, GLS and G-Class. Thanks to strong growth rates, sales of the midsize SUV GLC set a new record in September and in the first nine months of this year. Over the past 10 years, Mercedes-Benz sold more than 1.6 million midsize SUVs to customers worldwide. Also, more than 58,000 units of the S-Class Saloon were sold, an increase of about 24 per cent. The popularity of the Mercedes-Maybach S-Class Saloon also continues: A new sales record was set in September and in the first nine month of the year. In China, around 500 units have been delivered each month since the beginning of the year.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .