The heart is regarded as the centre of our being because if it fails, everything shuts down. But keeping this organ working does not just depend on reducing the intake of junk food and processed food. Eating food that does not contain high cholesterol and an increase in high blood pressure is also important. Here are foods that will gladden your heart: Sardines Credit: Home Remedy And Natural Cures Salmon is an example of fatty fish that contains Omega 3 that improves the state of the heart and help control high blood pressure. Other fish are mackerel and sardines that contain omega 3 which promotes a healthy heart other protein staples are lobsters and oysters. However, attention must be paid that they are well cooked. Read More: Mediterranean Diet May Help Tackle Depression Cashew nuts, hazelnuts, walnuts, almonds, and pecans are all tree nuts, and a number of studies have documented their potential health benefits. Nuts are healthy for the heart because they contain potassium and magnesium which helps to control blood pressure. Nuts like walnuts, almonds and hazelnuts are helpful for heart health. But beware of salted nuts or sugared nuts. Pile Of Green Avocados. Credit: Food & Wine Magazine Adding avocados to a healthy diet will help to reduce blood pressure, some studies have shown that adding this to the diet could ensure that some people do not have to take medication for blood pressure. This fruit helps to maintain cholesterol levels Spinach Leaves Credit: commons.wikimedia.org This includes salad greens, pumpkin leaf (Ugu), spinach and other dark leafy vegetables. They contain a variety of vitamins and antioxidants that remove toxins from the body. They are also rich in calcium, magnesium and potassium which maintains a healthy heart. Vegetables contain fibre which helps to control constipation and weight gain which in turn helps the heart to stay strong and healthy.
Other foods that help promote the good state of the heart include. Legumes, beet, olive oil and low-fat dairy. Although a healthy diet is important for the heart, exercise, reducing stress level and avoiding smoking will make your heart thank you.