 Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje  Representative of the group, Hassan Umar, told The Guardian that in spite of prior notice and subsequent approval granted, the youths were denied the opportunity to freely protest and express their feelings as guaranteed under the laws. Hassan hinted that the groups under aegis of Kano Youths Promotion Council (KYPC) and Progressive Political Network (PPN) had organised mass campaign against youths’ involvement as thugs during elections. However, the police have suspension all planned protests in the state henceforth to forestall a break down of law and order. The announcement monitored in one of the local radio stations captured the spokesperson of Kano Police Command, SP Magaji Musa Majiya, saying that a group of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) plan to stage mass protest against Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje’s continued stay in office following a video of alleged bribery released by Daily Nigerian, an online media publication. Although, Hassan insisted the KYPC was not aware of the NANS protest against Ganduje, he lamented that political violence was becoming unbearable in Kano and should be discouraged.“We are not aware of any NANS issue here and we don’t have anything to do with NANS. Ours is to call for and sensitise the youths not to embark or allow anybody to use them for political thuggery during the 2019 general elections. Meanwhile, the governor has said all plans to tarnish his hard earned political reputation have already failed even before execution.He was speaking about the video footage in which he was alleged to have been involved in bribery scandal. Ganduje stated this at the Shiekh Jidda General Hospital in Kano to inaugurate Dr. Bello Umar Dikko Accident and Emergency Ward, constructed by the state government where he took blood pressure (BP) test.A statement issued by the Director General, Media and Publicity, Aminu Yasser said: “In spite recent political crises in Kano, Ganduje’s blood pressure was certified normal by medical personnel.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .