 Udom welcomes Obasanjo to Akwa Ibom  Obasanjo said the governor was a good product that could take the state to the promised land. He said that of the attributes of truth, forgiveness, love and continuity that God shares with man, continuity has been in existence since God created the world. The former president said that God created man to tell the truth, to love and to forgive, and that was why He gave His son so that the world does not perish. “You have to be a strong Christian to be able to say, ‘God will find for me a successor that will do to me what I have done to my predecessor.’” “This man believes in his character, he believes in his value, he believes in his service to humanity and to God. “I always cherish the attributes of God. The wonderful God that we worship kept some attributes to Himself He doesn’t share with anybody: Omnipresence, Omnipotence and Omniscience. “He has other attributes that he shares with us – kindness, generosity, compassion, truth, forgiveness, love and continuity. “God is a God of continuity since he created the world. I always say to myself and my family: if something is good, keep it. “We have a good product in our hand and if I have a good product in my hand, I will not change it, I will keep it. “This is a good product, let’s have him for continuity. I can assure you, this governor has no fear; he will stand still. Please stand with him and he will take us to the promise land,” Obasanjo said. Earlier, Gov. Emmanuel said Obasanjo was in the state on a solidarity visit, adding that the presence of the former president always brought about something good. “Whenever you see him move, know you that something is about to happen. As you see him move today, something good is about to happen in Akwa Ibom. “He has spoken concerning Nigeria and I’m sure something good is about to happen in Nigeria. “Baba just came on a father-son solidarity visit and he chose to worship in my own local church. “I want to thank him for this show of love, this show of solidarity and I also thank God for everything,” Emmanuel said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .