Former Nigerian vice-President Atiku Abubakar (R) is congratulated by runners-up Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal (L) and Senate President Bukola Saraki (C) after winning the presidential ticket of the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) during the party’s national convention in Port Harcourt, Rivers State on October 7, 2018. Nigeria’s main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has picked Abubakar to challenge President Muhammadu Buhari who is seeking a second term in presidential polls scheduled for February 2019. PIUS UTOMI EKPEI / AFP Nigeria Senate President Bukola Saraki has emerged the campaign director to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential flag bearer Atiku Abubakar. Saraki’s appointment as the director-general of the Atiku Abubakar Presidential Campaign Organisation was disclosed on Tuesday morning by Kola Ologbondiyan, the party’s spokesman. Abubakar was elected the presidential candidate of the main opposition party at its national convention in Port Harcourt earlier this month. Saraki was among the 11 aspirants who challenged Mr Abubakar for the PDP presidential candidacy for 2019 election. After Atiku emerged as the flag bearer after the primaries, the other aspirants pledged their support to Atiku after considering the exercise peaceful and transparent. Saraki will work with six others who will harmonize the six geopolitical zones. The region coordinators are the Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal (North-west); Ebonyi State Governor David Umahi (South-East); Gombe State Governor Ibrahim Dankwambo (North-East); Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike (South-South); Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom (North-Central) and former Ekiti State Governor Ayodele Fayose would lead South-West push. A source in Atiku’s presidential campaign team confirmed that Saraki was appointed as the Director General of Atiku Presidential Campaign Council by the party and not Atiku. He further noted that Gbenga Daniel, Atiku’s campaign director so far, will still work on Atiku’s campaign. “Like we said initially, it is the prerogative of the party to set up a campaign council for itself. This is different from the campaign organization which is on ground under the leadership of Gbenga Daniel. Like we did before the primary, a special council was set up headed by Chief Iwuayanwu for the purpose of the primary. This doesn’t interfere with the works of the campaign organization which is linked personally to Atiku Abubakar,” the source said. Ologbondiyan noted that other key appointments into the PDP presidential campaign structure would be disclosed soon. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .