Kano State Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje (left); his Ogun counterpart Ibikunle Amosun; President Muhammadu Buhari; Governors, Simon Lanlong (Plateau); Rochas Okorocha (Imo) and Abdulaziz Yari (Zamfara) at the State House, Abuja …yesterday. PHOTO: PHILIP OJISUA The National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have released the list of senate aspirants that have been cleared to contest the 2019 elections. The party published the list of aspirants cleared to run for the senate. In the list published on the party’s official website, the incumbent governors of Ogun and Oyo states, Senator Ibikunle Amosun and Senator Abiola Ajimobi  have been deemed fit to contest for representation of their respective senatorial zones at the upper legislative chamber. Amosun represented the Ogun Central senatorial district between 2003 and 2007 under the All Nigeria’s People Party before he became the governor of the state in 2011. Ajimobi also after serving as a senator between 2003 and 2007, hopes to win the Oyo South senatorial following his two terms as governor of Oyo state. Five other current governors have also been cleared to represent their respective senatorial zones in the national assembly. The five governors will be contesting after serving two terms as governors of their respective states. They include Gov. Abdul’aziz Yari of Zamfara state, Gov. Tanko Al-Makura of Nasarawa State, Gov. Kashim Shettima of Borno state, Gov. Rochas Okorocha of Imo State and Gov. Ibrahim Geidam of Yobe State. It continues the spate of governors moving into the Senate chambers after their tenures at the state executive level. Former Akwa Ibom state governor, Senator Godswill Akpabio, after his defection from the People’s Democratic Party to the APC was cleared to contest a return to represent Akwa Ibom North-West senatorial seat. Ibrahim Shekarau, a governor of Kano State between 2003 and 2011. After his failed Presidential aspirations in 2011, he has set his sights on representing the Kano Central constituents in the Senate. The former governor was cleared by the APC to run for the Senate primaries. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .