 Outgoing Ekiti state governor and PDP party member, Ayodele Fayose  The Guardian observed that tears rolled down the cheeks of many who lined up the streets to bid him farewell enroute Akure Airport, Ondo State where he had to catch a flight. Earlier in the day, at a thanksgiving held in his honour at the Government House chapel in Ado-Ekiti, the outgoing governor, in an emotion-laden voice, thanked the people for their support while in office. Fayose assured the residents that he would always be with them, urging them to trust in God for a better future for him and the state, adding that he was a fulfilled man. His words: “I am contented. I am happy and I say thank you. Don’t be disparaged, don’t worry about me, I will come back. I will rise to the glory of God. I have enjoyed uncommon grace; I will never complain but thank God.” To the impeached speaker of the state House of Assembly, Kola Oluwawole, the governor advised him to take his fate as a divine act. He was last Thursday ousted by 14 of the 26-member Assembly who later went ahead to suspend a number of others believed to be loyal to outgoing chief executive.He advised: “I don’t want you to trouble your mind, there won’t be testimonies without battles. Go and concede defeat in the overall interest of Ekiti. You were removed illegally but let God fight for you.” In his sermon entitled, Affliction shall not rise the second time, the Chaplain of Government House, Revd. Seyi Olusola, said a man must be ready to face affliction if he must rise.“Don’t allow anything to trouble your mind, always come to God,” he counselled. The governor’s wife, Feyisetan, said her husband would come back to Ekiti a triumphant man.“We are coming back. I don’t know how but I have 200 per cent assurances,” she enthused. The event was attended by traditional rulers led by their chairman and Oloye of Oye-Ekiti, Oba Oluwole Ademolaju and the Ewi of Ado-Ekiti, Oba Rufus Adejugbe.Also present were the outgoing deputy governor, Prof. Kolapo Olusola and his wife, Janet; Chief of Staff, Dipo Anisulowo; Head of Service, Dr. Gbenga Faseluka; Secretary to the State Government, Mrs. Modupe Alade; Oluwawole; members of the national and state assemblies as well as cabinet members and others. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .