Iyalode Alaba Lawson The Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) has called for an innovative approach to problems of job creation, power supply and road rehabilitation in the country. The National President Iyalode Alaba Lawson made the call during her presentation at the Presidential Quarterly Business Forum (QBF) held at the Presidential Villa, Abuja recently. She also commended the Federal Government for sustaining the Business Forum which has strengthened the relationship and consultation between the Federal Government and the Organised Private Sector. She stressed the need for an innovative approach to the issue of unemployment which currently stands at 18.8% with majority of young Nigerians in this category. According to a statement, NACCIMA boss drew the Federal Government’s attention to the Next Generation Nigeria Report of 2010 which recommended massive investment in young people to equip them for life in modern economy, through provision of good education. She also stressed the need to prioritise acquisition of skills and expansion of vocational training that can equip young people for employment. Iyalode Alaba Lawson used the opportunity of the Presidential Quarterly Business Forum to reiterate the importance of steady electricity to improve productivity and job creation within the economy. “There is therefore an urgent need to improve power supply through the completion of some of the power stations in the South-South and South-East. This is to enable injection of more power needed to re-activate old inactive industries and setting up of new ones across the country”, she added. She also called on the Federal Government to declare state of emergency for urgent repairs of Nigeria’s roads and most especially Lagos-Ibadan Expressway which is very important to Nigeria’s economy; as it is the main artery through which most of the goods coming into the country are transported to other part of Nigeria and beyond.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .