Lagos Chief Judge, Justice Opeyemi Oke The Lagos State Scout Council last week, inducted 17 judges and nine magistrates of the Lagos State Judiciary. The ceremony, which held at the Lagos State High Court foyer, Igbosere, was part of activities marking the 2018/2019 Legal Year. The State Scout Council had sometime in May, inducted the Lagos Chief Judge, Justice Opeyemi Oke, as its President. Speaking at the induction ceremony for the judges and magistrates therefore, Justice Oke charged the inductees to see their membership of the scout council as a way of serving in another capacity to help the society, especially the young ones. The chief judge admonished them to see themselves as agents of positive change. She however promised to set up a committee that will ensure they find time, in spite of their busy schedule as judges and magistrates, to contribute to the education of young people through a value system based on the Scouts laws. Lagos Scout Council Commissioner, Chief Jonathan Tawose in his address, described the investiture as epoch making even, adding that scout movement is a voluntary, non-political educational movement for young people, which is also open to all without distinction of gender, origin, race or creed. According to him, “Scouting offers young people the opportunity to develop their full emotional, intellectual, physical, social and spiritual potentials as individuals, as responsible global citizens and as members of their local, national and international communities. “It is important to emphasis that the role adult leader plays consists of assisting young people in achieving the objectives of scouting. “While the boy or girl is learning to know, learning to be and learning to do, the adult leader should confine himself or herself to merely facilitating and educating the young ones as credited to the founder – Lord Robert Baden Powell.” The judges and magistrates who were inducted include Justices B.A Candide-Johnson, M.O Obadina, J.E Oyefeso, O.A Taiwo, S.O Nwaka, A.O Opesanwo, O.A Olayinka, O.A Okikiolu-Ighile and O.A
Akinlade. Others are Justices I.O Harrison, O.A Ogala, G.A Safari, I.O Akinkugbe, O.A Adamson and A. Soladoye.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .