 The Speaker, Lagos House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa PHOTO: TWITTER/LSHA  Ambode, early October, amid dramas, lost the governorship primaries of the All Progressives Congress in the state to his rival Babajide Sanwo-Olu in a most humiliating defeat. “Impeachment is constitutional and has its process. we are not embarking on that yet,” the assembly speaker Mudashiru Obasa said on Monday. “Akinwunmi Ambode has not committed any impeachable offence.” There have been speculations that there is a fast-paced plot is unfolding in the state assembly to unseat Ambode before the expiration of his single term. The impeachment rumours thicken after the lawmakers on Thursday ordered Private Sector Partnership (PSP) operators in all the 20 Local Governments and 37 Local Council Development Areas (LCDAs) of the state to resume refuse collection and disposal with immediate effect. The PSP operators were disengaged by Ambode following the introduction of a new environmental initiative, through the Visionscape Sanitation Solution Limited. There was a discontent of residents of the state over the challenged capacity of Visionscape to handle the refuse business is now being explored by the party elite to push the impeachment. However, the speaker while reacting to the rumours said “We don’t need wailers to advise us on how to go about our duties. For now, we are still working in one accord to move Lagos forward. This is to clear the rumours.” Meanwhile, a Lagos-based civil rights movement, Save Lagos Group (SLG) last Friday threatened to picket the Lagos State House of Assembly if it goes ahead with its alleged plans to impeach Ambode. It also warned lawmakers against being the tool to be used by some selfish individuals to impeach Ambode, saying that the group had prepared to legally, constitutionally and democratically resist any attempt by the State Assembly to impeach the governor. “They wanted Ambode out of office prematurely because they didn’t want him to be entitled to the pension emolument of the exalted office,” the Group said in a statement. “As a civil rights group that stood for truth and Justice, we must say capital ‘NO’ to selfish removal of the Lagos governor.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .