 Oluwatoyin Sanni is the Group CEO of United Capital Plc  The Group Chief Executive Officer of United Capital, Peter Ashade, said it’s brand of financial services offerings is not all about investment banking, but the provision of innovative approaches to the services, adding: “The newly improved InvestNow underscores our outlook.” Speaking on the new strategy to rev up volume of transactions, he noted that the platform was earlier an online trading, meant for capital market, but now made a bigger room for the general financial services. “As part of our contributions to financial inclusion, our target, by the structure of the platform, is to cater to the need of customers from new born to aged person. It creates convenience, simplicity and accessibility, with call center, WhatsApp and chat system. We are not resting on our oars. This is one and only platform, for now, that you will see the infusion of trading, trustees, mutual fund and wealth management services. “Our customers can now invest in our different products on the platform either through the website or with the App. You can buy mutual funds online, trade on the equities market, set up a trust and even write a will.” The Group Chief Information Officer of United Capital, Joseph Onyema, said while they have set target for themselves, it is not more about financial numbers, but much about people, as we have planned to get “a minimum of 20,000 people from now till December.” “Today, you can do equities trading and execute it at the stock exchange instantly on the platform; you buy euro bond in dollars; money market funds; track your accounts daily; and set up a will (the first online platform for that). “This is targeted at the bottom of the pyramid, which places all customers at the same level. Of course, if the testimonials are good, the flow of money will come naturally because the clients will even invite their friends. For the moment, we want to help Nigerians imbibe savings culture. “A big selling point for us is that everything can be done with a single app. You don’t have to download several apps just to trade on the Stock Exchange, to buy mutual funds or to create a will. With InvestNow.Ng, you can have all your investments at a single point,” he said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .