President Muhammadu Buhari • El-Rufai seeks N3.85b to rebuild, resettle victims 
President Muhammadu Buhari, who visited Kaduna State yesterday, assured that the Federal Government will do everything possible to punish perpetrators of violence and the latest killings in the state.He expressed sadness at the recent loss of lives and property in Kasuwan Magani and the unrest in Kaduna metropolis, insisting that the killings must stop. However, Governor Nasir El-Rufai appealed to the President to release the balance of 53 per cent of compensation, amounting to N3.85 billion to rebuild the damaged property and resettle the victims of the 2011 post-election violence in the state. Buhari said during a meeting with government officials, security chiefs, traditional rulers, religious and community leaders at the Musa Yar’Adua Sports Complex that if perpetrators of violence got away with killings in the past, government will now hold them accountable for the latest killings. His words: “It is unacceptable that criminal elements can engage in wanton killing of citizens in the Kasuwan Magani incident of October 18, 2018 and the unrest around Kaduna metropolis a few days later. This must stop.”He directed the Nigeria Police Force to remain vigilant in securing communities and to be diligent in prosecuting criminal offences. President Buhari also appealed to traditional and community leaders to be closer to their people and not shield those who plan to wreak havoc on communities from law enforcement agencies. Commiserating with the government and people of the state and families of those who lost loved ones in the incidents, the President paid tributes to the late Agom Adara, Dr. Maiwada Galadima, who was murdered by kidnappers. Read More: Crisis: Buhari arrives Kaduna He applauded the traditional ruler for serving his community and the state diligently. Galadima was said to had been shot immediately ransom was paid to the kidnappers at the appointed location.The Guardian learnt that even the courier of the ransom could not understand why the kidnappers shot Galadima, who was already on the verge of being released. Residents say the chief was killed and his corpse moved to Katari, about 85 kilometres between Abuja and Kaduna, before his kidnappers contacted the family, informing them where to pick up his body. However, religious and traditional leaders arrived the Murtala Mohammed Square, venue of the meeting amid heavily beefed up security. While appealing to all who call Kaduna their home to do their best to maintain peace in their respective communities, the President cautioned that chaos and anarchy tend to worsen and exacerbate issues agitating any community.“Violence shatters and divides people and stifles the prospect of any community that succumbs to its tragic logic. “The Federal Government commends the effort of the Kaduna State government in responding to and managing the crisis. More federal security assets are being provided at the request of the Kaduna State government to help keep the peace.“Government will continue to work to ensure that more security personnel are recruited and deployed across the country to protect all citizens going about their lawful business and to reinforce government’s authority,” he said. President Buhari also applauded the decision of the Kaduna State government and the local government areas to provide facilities for more police divisions and civil defence offices in the state.While calling for the establishment of more security presence in the state, El-Rufai said there was the need for the prosecution and conviction of all those who destroy lives and property. “There must be clear consequences and sanctions for communities that encourage violence. Our communities have an obligation to keep the peace and to expose criminal elements. Our communities should reject carnage and the criminal elements that indulge in violence,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .