• Chevron, airlines, others lose revenue as stakeholders fault agency over closure
The disagreement between Nigeria Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) and Shoreline Oil Services, managers of Osubi Airfield in Warri, Delta State, assumed a new dimension at the weekend, as they traded blame over closure of the airstrip. While NAMA alleged that Shoreline owed over N500 million for air navigation services since 2015, the firm described NAMA’s claim as ‘frivolous charges’ and an attempt to keep extorting its management. However, concerned stakeholders have faulted NAMA’s move to ban aircraft in and out of the airport, saying it was an attempt to ground the aerodrome. The Osubi airstrip was closed on September 3, 2018 following NAMA’s withdrawal of air traffic controllers and embargo on aircraft to and from the facility. The airport, which services the oil and gas sector and members of the public, has remained shut since then. Sources at Chevron yesterday told The Guardian that logistics services between Warri and Escravos airfields had remain quite challenging in the last two months over the closure of the airbase with revenue losses amounting to hundreds of millions. It was learnt that Chevron, usually operate at least three chopper services from Osubi daily, moving men and equipment, while other commercial operators cancelled their flights and contracts due to the closure. Arik Air, for instance, has since September diverted all Warri bound flights to Benin, Edo State. An official of the airport yesterday explained that Shoreline paid its accumulated debt of N31 million to NAMA two weeks ago, leaving a small credit balance with the agency.He said contrary to NAMA’s ‘frivolous’ claim of N17.7 million monthly levies, amounting to N500 million, “the agreement former owners, Shell, had with NAMA was to pay N2.975 million monthly.” Effort to confirm the payment of debt from NAMA was unsuccessful, as its General Manager, Public Affairs, Khalid Emele’s phones were switch-off. But Director of Finance at NAMA, Umoh Aniefiok, earlier said the withdrawal of services over the N500 million debt was the last resort; since other means of settling the rift had been exhausted.Former Managing Director of NAMA, Capt. Roland Iyayi, described the closure of the airport as an overreach, saying only the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has such powers.Iyayi said if NCAA had certified the Osubi airstrip based on the structure, facilities and qualified personnel in place, then it was wrong to have shut it down. Aviation Security Consultant, Group Captain John Ojikutu (rtd.), agreed that only NCAA could shut down an airport, due to non-compliance with safety rules, security and to some extent economic regulations, as provided for in the Nigeria Civil Aviation Regulations. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .