 [FILE PHOTO] Peter Obi  Although, such remarks are not new in Nigeria’s politics this one is obviously pedestrian. However, one can understand why Obi has a polarised response around the country and sad enough the negative perspective is particularly coming from his own people. It is rare for a top politician in Nigeria to get away clean and leave office on good terms without being fingered in corruption quagmire. If Peter Obi had such a corrupt free status as everyone is saying why are Muhammadu Buhari and his cohorts not flying the kite alone all these years? Aside that, why has Buhari not use his incorruptibility to improve the economy, electricity, roads, education among others? The other day, the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola said: “The problem of electricity is slowly being solved, one by one. Anybody will tell you he will do magic, tell him, how?…” Perhaps, the APC people think Nigerians have forgotten how they promised to fix everything in the nation within one year during the 2015 elections campaign. Yes. The Igbo leaders may not like Peter Obi as a person but they have no choice to respect what he does. Over the years, Obi has built his political reputation as a defender of his people and country’s interest against the alleged bureaucratic disposition within the political system in the nation. Hence, when he completed his governorship tenure Peter Obi became one of the few, out of the 36 states governors in the country who have made huge difference and his reputation still largely intact. As a governor, he was able to clear the N35 billion pension debts he inherited and by the time he was leaving office, he neither owed salary or pension in Anambra State. Notwithstanding such feat, greedy politicians believe he achieved nothing because he is stingy and does not give or share the “national cake” neither does he pinch or cut a piece of the cake for his own pleasure. It is, therefore, no mystery or one does not need to belabour a visit to the witch doctor over reasons Obi’s kinsmen desire to frustrate his political career with their current stance. The simple and not farfetched reason behind the inching bug is that, he successfully infected his successor, Willie Obiano with the stingy virus. Hence, Obiano had a running battle with the states House of Assembly over sharing of the “national cake”. At that time, the Assembly members gave him a re-election condition: “Furnish us with brand new Toyota Prado or you meet a brick wall during election.” Their anger was that their colleagues in other states move in SUV’s while they ridiculously ride on Escape cars. In this current scenario, the Igbo leaders chose to quickly provide a cure before it is too late. Perhaps, with the thinking that Peter Obi would likely anoint Atiku with the stingy disease which could eventually make the ever influential, philanthropic and man of the people (Atiku) to become stingy overnight if they finally assume power. By every standard, the Igbo leader’s position on Peter Obi’s nomination is likened to what Mark Anthony called “the unkindest cut” of them all in Shakespeare’s Julius Ceasar while making reference to where Brutus’s dagger ran through Ceasar’s ribs. Despite the growing catalogue of concerns and apathy about Obi’s choice as running mate, his detractors cannot take it away from him that, he is an humble and simple man who represents the masses in an uphill battle to achieve their goals or better put, ameliorate their predicament. It is often said that political leader’s path usually leads to uncharted territory of conflict irrespective of being in the same party. Nevertheless, looking ahead to 2019 elections, I am optimistic that Nigeria will continue on the path towards greater cooperation if our political elite eschew selfishness. Indeed, there may be disagreement on specific issues, but Nigeria as a whole has much to gain from partnership rather than confrontation or mutual neglect. It is also important to note that, the political system must invigorate and engage the youth. This is because democracy is sustained on generational pact. Such a pact does not work if each generation does not create the conditions for the next to develop its own contributions. In many ways, the Igbo leader’s opinion on Peter Obi’s emergence as vice president to Atiku poses more dangerous political problems for the region. In matters like this, the welfare of the people should be the overriding issue not selfish interest. At the moment, many people who openly dislike Atiku have simply chosen him as their vehicle, to stop Buhari on the polls come 2019.  While others compare him to a parking lot, the safest place to keep your car from burglars. Therefore, the support Atiku now peddles remains more invigorated by the day. He is seen as a stabilizing force within the political family irrespective of your political party. He enjoys a popular opinion by Nigerians in glorious terms declaring that he is uniquely special and less harmful of the two odds. According to analysts, between the deep blue sea and the devil, Atiku has for the moment, become the best foil to maintain some control over irregularities in the country. An irony not lost on either his supporters or detractors. Between the two major parties (APC and PDP) are at war in so many ways but alike in the mistakes they keep repeating especially when it comes to the economy and job creation. Consider the seductive change slogan and the misleading attraction and emphasis placed on employment and award of stipends to fresh graduates by the APC while campaigning in 2015. It is believed that the Obi/Atiku ticket will be committed to a new economic nationalism because both are successful businessmen with job creation chops. They are looking past Buhari, beyond his “coat of one colour” (incorruptible). To assert a fundamental truth, whatever you think of him, Buhari has shown a major failing in the way his government is serving the Nigerian people. Just as the Igbo leaders’ position is playing out the assertion that the Igbo always see themselves as master all the time and must be worshiped.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .