Taylor Swift continues to make fans’ “Wildest Dreams” come true as the multiple award-winning singer has just donated N5.6 million naira to a fan whose mom is in a coma. The Look What You Made Me Do crooner proved fans can have nice things even if she said something different in her hit song, This Is Why We Can’t Have Nice Things.  Taylor Swift filled in the “Blank Space” of a GoFundMe donation page over the weekend. It is gathered that on October 1, 19-year-old Sadie Bartell posted a long message on Twitter requesting help from her followers. “Hey guys. I’m really nervous to post this. Please help if you can and pray for my family. I’m sorry I never said anything sooner and that I’m suddenly asking for help. I love you guys so much,” she wrote. Bartell linked to a GoFundMe page to raise money for her mom, Lauriann, who has been in a coma for three years. According to her note on Twitter, “[Lauriann] had an ulcer that bled out that led to a lack of oxygen to the brain which resulted in brain damage. We take care of her at home full time.” Later on in her note, Bartell wrote about Swift and thanked the singer for “keeping me afloat through it all.” The Grammy award-winning singer must have seen her fan’s love, because she then donated $15,500 to the cause. She signed the donation “Love, Taylor, Meredith and Olivia Swift.” Meredith and Olivia are the name of her Instagram-famous cats. Read More: Taylor Swift Plays The Role Of A Red-Haired Secretary In “Babe” After Swift made the very generous contribution, Bartell posted about it on Facebook and what the donation meant to her. “Everyone who knows me knows that Taylor Swift is my whole entire life. She has been there for me more than anyone. I really, truly, would not be who I am without her,” she wrote. “She shows up every time I need her. She always has and she always will. I wish that I could express how much it means to me that ANYONE has helped my family over the years, let alone Taylor. She is the light at the end of the tunnel and is truly the best thing that has ever happened to me.” This is not the first time Swift has proved she has a big heart as she has donated to various fans’ needs in times past.