 (FILES) In this file photo taken on October 9, 2018 President of Human Right Association (IHD) Eren Keskin (R) speaks to journalists during a demonstration in front of the Saudi Arabian consulate in Istanbul, in support of missing journalist and Riyadh critic Jamal Khashoggi. – Eren Keskin, a Turkish human rights lawyer was nominated on October 24, 2018 along with an Afro-Colombian activist and a Sudanese refugee, for one of the world’s most prestigious human rights prizes. The annual Martin Ennals Award — sometimes referred to as “the Nobel prize for human rights” due to its global scope — recognises the work of human rights defenders at risk of persecution. (Photo by OZAN KOSE / AFP)  CIA Director Gina Haspel visited the Turkish capital Ankara on Tuesday for talks with officials about the killing of Washington Post contributor Khashoggi inside Saudi Arabia’s Istanbul consulate. Video images and audio tapes as well as evidence gathered from the consulate and the consul’s residence were shared with Haspel during the briefing at the Turkish Intelligence Organisation (MIT), Sabah newspaper reported. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has stopped short of pointing the blame at the Saudi leadership for the death of the Saudi insider-turned-critic. But he said in a keynote speech on Tuesday that the murder was meticulously planned, demanding that all those involved brought to justice. Khashoggi, 59, vanished on October 2 after entering the Saudi mission to obtain documents for his wedding. ‘Savage murder’
Speaking at a ceremony in Ankara, Erdogan on Wednesday vowed that Turkey would not allow the culprits to get away with their “savage murder”. “We are determined not to allow any cover up of this murder and for all those responsible from those who gave the command to those who executed it — not to escape justice,” he said. “We are not implicating anyone,” he added, saying that Ankara would be transparent as it gathers more evidence that shed light on the “dark sides” of the murder. “It is not over yet,” he said. “We are unravelling, dismantling (the case) and the world is closely following.” The whereabouts of Khashoggi’s corpse still remain unknown. Erdogan said on Tuesday that a 15-person team came from Riyadh to kill Khashoggi, including by carrying out reconnaissance outside Istanbul and deactivating security cameras at the consulate. Turkish police searched the kingdom’s Istanbul consulate, and the consul general’s residence as well as hunting for evidence in an Istanbul forest. On Tuesday, the police searched an abandoned car belonging to the Saudi consulate in an underground car park in the Sultangazi district of Istanbul. The Saudi leadership has denied involvement in the murder and instead blamed the chain of command. Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman “strongly said that he had nothing to do with this, this was at a lower level,” US President Donald Trump said on Tuesday, adding he had spoken on Monday to the prince and his father King Salman. Turkish pro-government media has claimed that Ankara has audio tapes of the killing. Last week, the Turkish government denied giving “any kind of audio tape” from the investigation to any US official. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .