   Led by Nigerian ICT expert based in the U.S., Joshua Omisore, the platform leverages on the capabilities that Artificial Intelligence technology provides by creating an all-inclusive application which acts as a primary access point for the provision of key resources to those in need. Available on Apple and Android devices, ‘Open Hands Tech’ provides real-time information about location and availability of resources by linking Non-Governmental Organisations(NGOs), companies and people who offer social services with indigent Nigerians who may need them. Using voice and text services, the application serves as a lifeline assistance programme that provides users with a portal to resources and lifeline. According to Director of the firm, Mr Toluwanimi Adesiyan, who spoke recently with The Guardian in Lagos, the firm, which would soon commence full operation in Nigeria, will be providing several direct and indirect job opportunities for the teeming youths, and through the poverty alleviation agenda of the App, the firm would drastically fight poverty. He noted that Rakuten, a Japanese tech company and Goldman Sach bank in USA sponsors the App, which is run by a team of astute professionals. Adesiyan also disclosed that the firm had commenced process to reach over 100 non-governmental organizations across the country that can provide services, which benefit the less privileged to ensure its mass reach. “With poverty statistics in Nigeria spiraling out of control, Nigeria is standing precariously on the edge of a social crisis like never before. Resources are spread thin across the nation’s citizens, and with the government struggling to keep the nation’s economy adrift, poverty figures are soaring at an alarming rate. Open Hands is ‎using an astute blend of human resources and information technology tools to create a civilisation where resources are readily accessible and spread more evenly across society”, he said. He continued “The organisation with perfect SAT scores and a plethora of high-level connections put together a great team of business and community leaders from across the United States and Nigeria to create a medium that provides agency for the underserved” “With more support, Open Hands Tech can effectively use interactive information to bridge the gap between solutions providers and their target market, while simultaneously expanding their reach. The ultimate goal is to build a community and network of people and organisations and synergise their efforts by integrating the efforts of NGOs and organisations who offer the same or similar services. By creating a unified front, information dissemination and service delivery are optimised. We can ensure that vital resources are efficiently delivered to those who need them and that those who benefit from these services are always satisfied”, the director explained. ‎ To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .