 Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar raises his hands in victory after he won the presidential ticket of the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) during the national convention in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, on October 7, 2018. Former vice president Atiku Abubakar will challenge incumbent Muhammadu Buhari for the Nigerian presidency early next year after winning the opposition Democratic Peoples Party primary, an AFP reporter at the vote said on October 7, 2018. Abubakar, 71, won 1,532 votes, trouncing his main rival Aminu Tambuwal, the governor of northern Sokoto state who scored 693 votes at the party’s convention in the southeastern oil hub of Port Harcourt.<br />PIUS UTOMI EKPEI / AFP  Okorie, in a chat with The Guardian, disclosed that he considered it a rare privilege to take part alongside 99 eminent Nigerians in the making of history, which he said the signing of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) nomination form of the PDP presidential candidate and his running mate, Obi, represented. Some of the PDP stakeholders that joined in endorsing the former vice president’s form include governors Ezenwo Nyesom Wike, Udom Emmanuel, Ben Ayade, Ifeanyi Okowa, Aminu Tambuwal and Senators Rabiu Kwankwaso and Ahmed Makarfi. Others are former governors Ibrahim Shema, Idris Wada, Ibrahim Idris, as well as Buba Galadima, Senator Iyorchia Ayu, Solomon Ewuga, Bob Effiong, Dubem Onyia, former PDP National Chairmen, Vincent Ogbulafor and Okwesilieze Nwodo, Godsday Orubebe, Dan Orbih among others. Okorie denied that Governor Dave Umahi was against the nomination of the former Chairman of South-East Governors’ Forum, Peter Obi, as the presidential running mate for next year’s election, stressing that the history of “Obidient Atikulation is a positive history that is welcome to every Nigerian, particularly the people of South-East.” Okorie, who is also Chairman of House of Representatives committee on Agricultural Colleges and Institutions, explained that it was not healthy to take certain communication out of context, stressing that PDP was enjoying the comeback momentum which the nomination of powerful presidential candidates that resonate with the yearnings of Nigerians. He said: “I joined very eminent Nigerians, 99 of them, to sign the INEC nomination form of President-to-be, HE Atiku Abubakar and his running mate, Peter Obi, for the 2019 presidential elections. In joining the team, I ensured that Ebonyi State is not left out, as never again shall we be marginalized or excluded from the centre of all discussions and negotiations.” Similarly, Abubakar has expressed his willingness to work with the former presidential aspirant that contested against him at the party’s national convention in Port Harcourt, Kabiru Tanimu Turaki, during the electioneering campaign up to when the party eventually forms the government on May 29, 2019. While responding to Turaki’s congratulatory letter, Abubakar said: “I wish to convey my appreciation for your tremendous support before, during and after the convention.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .