Scores of protesters yesterday stormed the national secretariat of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) expressing support for the continuous stay of the national chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole. The protesters, under the aegis of the Federation of Buhari Support Group vowed to work assiduously for the reelection of President Muhammadu Buhari in the forthcoming 2019 poll, in spite of the antics of the adversaries of the party. Coordinator of the group, Alhaji Ibrahim Sikiru, who spoke to reporters alleged that a section of the party’s governors who style themselves as “Conservatives” led by Governor Rotimi Akeredolu had been working underground to undermine the chances of the party in the forthcoming 2019 poll. Amidst chants of “Nigeria said Buhari”, Oshiomhole remains our chairman whether they like it or not” , “On Buhari, Oshiomhole we stand” by the protesters who brandished several placards with the inscriptions, Sikiru alleged that Akeredolu had been working in concert with Governors Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti), Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun), Ahmad Nasir el-Rufai (Kaduna), Jubrilla Bindow (Adamawa) to achieve the goal. Sikiru claimed that his group had before now raised the alarm that Akeredolu was keen on sabotaging the on-going efforts of Buhari , the national leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Oshiomhole to reposition the party through the adoption of the direct primaries mode ahead of the 2019 poll. He further alleged: “As it is in Ondo state, President Buhari cannot get 10 percent votes come 2019 general election due to the demarketing policies of Governor Akeredolu . Instead of this accidental governor to focus on projects that will better the lots of good people of Ondo state, he is busy running from north to south collecting signatures of governors and party chairmen of various states to pass vote of no confidence on Adams Oshiomhole. “More so, Governor Akeredolu is not contesting for any election this time around. It clearly shows that Governor Akeredolu does not care for the success of the APC in the election come 2019.” “It is evident that Governor Akeredolu is purely a mole in APC, it would be recalled that he worked alongside Governors Kayode Fayemi and Amosun against the party’s choice in Osun election. Right now he has instructed all his loyalists and cabinet members in Ondo state to work against all party candidates in Ondo during the general election.” The group comprises Buhari/Osinbajo movement group, forum of Buhari support group, love to love foundation for Buhari 2019, Niger Delta women for Buhari, Buhari/Osinbajo destiny group, and farmers congress group for Buhari. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .