National President ASSBIFI, Oyinkan Olasanoye President of the Association of Senior Staff of Banks, Insurance and Financial Institutions (ASSBIFI), Comrade Oyinkan Olasanoye has canvassed decent conditions for workers, as against the existing risky setting. Olasanoye, who made the call yesterday at the 2018 World Decent Work Day, expressed concern about the poor working conditions, despite ratification of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Conventions on workers’ rights. She pledged commitment to the struggle for workers to continuously alert employers on global decent working conditions. Olasanoye said the global theme for this year’s celebration, “Change the Rules,” was significant to highlight the deeply entrenched injustice of the global economic system. According to her: “It is high time that we stop believing that the lack of decent jobs are as a result of globalisation, or modern economy. She said, on the contrary, indecent jobs are decisions that some people made for their selfish benefits at the expense of the vast majority. “More and more demands are being placed on workers, who simultaneously face the ever-growing threats to their pay, conditions of work and safety. It needs not to be in this way,” she said. Olasonoye canvassed putting the people first, if the economy must be revamped and a vibrant financial sector built for the country’s pride. The ASSBIFI president urged government to heed the call from workers for decent wage, safe and secured jobs, as well as prohibiting corporations from setting the rules for the economy. An industrial relations expert, Dr. Badejo Ekundayo, from University of Lagos, delivered a lecture on the theme of the conference that holds on October 7 of every year. Ekundayo described unfair labour practice as common trends in the financial sector, adding that the time has come to change the rules and make jobs less stressful for workers. He said there is the need to also build workers’ power struggles for democratic rights and freedom, and advance beneficial social and economy progress for all, instead of for the privileged elites.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .