Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar raises his hands in victory after he won the presidential ticket of the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) during the national convention in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, on October 7, 2018. Former vice president Atiku Abubakar will challenge incumbent Muhammadu Buhari for the Nigerian presidency early next year after winning the opposition Democratic Peoples Party primary, an AFP reporter at the vote said on October 7, 2018. Abubakar, 71, won 1,532 votes, trouncing his main rival Aminu Tambuwal, the governor of northern Sokoto state who scored 693 votes at the party’s convention in the southeastern oil hub of Port Harcourt.<br />PIUS UTOMI EKPEI / AFP Atiku Abubakar’s Presidential campaign Organisation has reacted to the research unit of The Economist Magazine prediction that Abubakar will unseat President Muhammadu Buhari 2019. The London-based magazine made the prediction in its latest country report on Nigeria, less than two months after it had predicted that Buhari would lose the forthcoming 2019 election. However, the People’s Democratic Party presidential candidate’s Campaign organisation’s spokesman Segun Sowunmi in statement on Friday said the report has vindicated Abubakar of all allegations. “The latest endorsement of the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, His Excellency, Atiku Abubakar, by the Economist Magazine, puts to lies the recent ridiculous claims made by Alhaji Lai Mohammed,that the international media is askance of the candidature of Mr. Abubakar,” Sowunmi said. “As the Economist rightly states, the issues in 2019 are ‘popular frustration over the rise in joblessness and poverty (two of the biggest voter concerns) on Mr. Buhari’s watch, as well as growing insecurity in central Nigeria,'” he added. Sowunmi further stated that “No other candidate has the capacity to address these challenges, like Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, under whose watch as Chairman of the National Council on Privatisation, Nigeria had her highest growth in job numbers.” He noted that Abubakar will translate the significant success he has made in his private business empire to the public sector. While stating the former Vice President’s achievement the campaign spokesman said ” Abubakar has traversed the length and breadth of Nigeria, selling his plans, vision and policies to Nigerians.” Sowunmi, however, affirmed that “The All Progressive Congress has focused on negative campaigning by slandering Mr. Abubakar’s past.” Atiku has been widely accused of being a part of a corruption scandal that prevents him from entering into the United States. While the allegation has been debunked by the Atiku, there are still speculations that the former vice president could be arrested if he sets foot in America. Sowunmi said: “We are not surprised by their actions. When a man’s future intimidates people, they focus on lying about his past because they cannot compete in the present. However, we thank The Economist for proving that no matter how far and fast falsehood has traveled, it must eventually be overtaken by truth.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .