Members of All Progressives Congress loyal to Gov Rochas Okorocha’s faction, protesting on the streets of Owerri over alleged imposition of candidates by the National Working Committee of the party, yesterday. PHOTO: CHARLES OGUGBUAJA • Okorocha’s faction protest alleged imposition
• Enugu decries purported suspension There appears to be no end in sight to the conflict that has engulfed the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) as many state chapters are still up in arms against the leadership style of the National Chairman, Mr. Adams Oshiomhole. In Imo State, economic and social activities were disrupted along major streets of Owerri, the state capital as scores of APC members believed to be loyal to Governor Rochas Okorocha faction of the party obstructed human and vehicular movements. In Kaduna, it was gathered that Governor Nasir El-Rufai wet the ground for the National Working Committee (NWC) members to prevent Oshiomhole from getting Senator Shehu Sani’s name on the list of candidates submitted to Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Sources also alleged that Lawal Dare coughed out the sum of $1million as against $500,000 offered by Governor Abdulaziz Yari in their desperate bid to get the governorship ticket. In Adamawa, Governor Jibrilla Bindow was said to have spent huge sums of money too to dispel the onslaught from Aso Rock Villa against his second term, a development, which precipitated the first lady’s outburst against the leadership of the party to the extent of indirectly accusing NWC of collecting bribes. An aspirant from Kwara State, who asked not to be named, claimed that but for the intervention of the Prof. Osunbor-appeal committee, his name would have been substituted, saying that Lai Mohammed and one Senator Ahmed substituted the names of those who won at the primaries with unknown entitities. In Owerri, the protesters, made up largely of youths, carried placards with various inscriptions such as “allow internal democracy to reign in Imo’, ‘APC NWC, no imposition of candidates,’ ‘Allow candidates who won primary elections be on the list.’ We no go agree”, marched on the ever-busy streets of Owerri, including Whederal, Bank Road, Douglas, Okigwe among adjoining streets. They urged the National Chairman, Oshiomhole, to allow the list sent to the headquarters of the party to be on the final list forwarded to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for next year’s general elections. The state Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr. Onwuasoanya Jones, while reacting to the development said APC is a party built on the solid foundation of democracy, discipline and transparency. He remarked that anyone who tried to deviate from those principles must be called to order no matter how highly-placed such an individual might be in the party’s hierarchy. Jones added: “The substitution of names of winners of the direct primaries of the party in Imo State with the names of others who didn’t even have the humility to seek the support of party members in their constituencies is wrong and must be condemned. “This is especially as those who are said to have benefited from this democratic faux pas, except one of them do not even know who is the ward chairman of the Party in their wards, not to talk of officials of the party at various levels.” The protesters alleged that the names of those who either lost or did not contest the primaries were replaced by the NWC in the name of harmonization of various lists to accommodate those in the opposing camp called “Coalition”. It was gathered that the governor’s son-in-law, Uche Nwosu, who is a governorship candidate, also has his faith hanging in the balance as it was yet to be ascertained whom between him and Senator Hope Uzodinma, was on the list, even as the matter is still in an Abuja court. Another case sparking the protesters’ agitation is the alleged substitution of the name of the immediate past Commissioner for Information, Prof. Nnamdi Obiaraeri, who was said to have defeated the incumbent Senator representing Imo North, Benjamin Uwajimogu, but had to be replaced with Uwajimogu, who is in the Coalition, on the basis of automatic ticket. Another case is that of the immediate past Deputy Chief of Staff (Operations), Kingsley Uju, believed to have been replaced with the name of Goodluck Opiah, to contest for the Ohaji/ Egbema, Oguta, Oru West Federal Constituency of the party. Okorocha’s deputy, Eze Madumere and Uzodinma are staunch members of the coalition camp. The Guardian learned that the first primaries were conducted by Ahmed Gulak, which announced Uzodinma as the winner, defeating Okorocha’s son-in-law, but Oshiomhole quickly cancelled it, dispatching another committee led by Brig-Gen. Agbakabia, that returned Nwosu as winner. Faction loyal to Deacon Okey Ogbodo faulted the purported suspension of a former Secretary to Enugu State Government and chieftain of APC in Enugu State, Chief Onyemauchi Nnamani by the faction loyal to Mr. Ben Nwoye. In a statement signed by Ogbodo, the chairman said, “It was with shock and bewilderment I received news of the purported suspension of a major pillar of APC in Enugu State, Chief Onyemuche Nnamani, by a former chairman of the party in the State, Mr. Ben Nwoye.” The factional chairman maintained that the “so-called disciplinary action is null, void, and of no effect because Nwoye has no locus standi to make such a pronouncement because his tenure as chairman of the party in the state effectively ended on May 19, 2018 with the election of the State Working Committee (SWC) headed by me at Enugu State Congress.” He lamented that Nwoye and his co-travelers are hell bent on going down with everybody, including his erstwhile benefactors whose personal resources and commitment sustained APC through those years of his rudderless leadership of the party in the state. Ogbodo stated: “Purporting to suspend Chief Nnamani on account of a court action he instituted in exercise of his constitutional right, to redress a perceived injustice in the conduct of party affairs, is akin to inviting law abiding citizens to take the laws into their own hands. No wonder Nwoye and his gang continue to parade themselves as officers of APC despite a subsisting restraining Federal High Court Order. “I urge Chief Nnamani and the general public to disregard Nwoye’s shenanigans and continue to keep faith with APC, which we are working to reposition as a realistic alternative platform for our people, going forward.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .