 Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, the Governor of Lagos State.Photo: Twitter/ AkinwunmiAmbode  He made the disclosure at the 18th National Women Conference of the Committee of Wives of Lagos State Officials (COWLSO).He said, though Ambode might have stepped on toes, but he has since moved on. Bagudu said: “My friend Ambode doesn’t like to be praised, because he is a very private person and I always see a reflection of him in me. This is how private people function in public works in politics, but gratefully he has done a lot for Lagos. “He has continued in the tradition and understandably, he might have offended some people. I have done so, many others before us have also done so, but Ambode has demonstrated grace. Being the believers that we are, we believe that history will judge him kindly.” He commended Ambode for the partnership that gave birth to lake rice initiative, noting that aside rekindling hope in the ability of Nigerians to achieve a lot for the country, the project also led to 90 per cent reduction in rice importation.He expressed appreciation about the partnership, adding that without him, there wouldn’t have been Lake Rice.“The significance of Lake Rice is that it encouraged a revival of “We can do spirit’’. President Muhammadu Buhari captured during his meeting with British Prime Minister Theresa May, and American President Donald Trump.
He said without Ambode, the country would not have achieved the feat, of reducing rice importation by 90 per cent. Bagudu also commended Ambode’s wife, Bolanle, as well as COWLSO, and other women in Lagos who encouraged and supported the Lake Rice and the Nigerian rice project. Ambode, who also lauded the women, said the Lake Rice initiative has significantly impacted on the economic fortunes of not only Lagos and Kebbi states, but also the entire nation.A communiqué by Prof. Ibiyemi Olatunji-Bello, wife of the Secretary to the State Government, urged government to review the minimum age in rendering family planning service, from 13 to15 years. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .