David Umahi of Ebonyi State. • Igbo group seeks support for Atiku, running mate
• Says Buhari can only win 2019 election if rigged Chairman, South-East Governors Forum and Governor of Ebonyi State, Chief David Umahi, yesterday said the zone was not against the choice of former Governor of Anambra State, Mr. Peter Obi, as running mate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) standard-bearer, Atiku Abubakar, but faulted the process in which Obi emerged. Umahi, who told journalists in Abakaliki that Obi is eminently qualified to be vice president of the country, insisted that South-East geo-political zone where he hails from was not carried along during deliberations for the nomination of running mate of the PDP candidate for the general election. He said that Ebonyi and Imo states were schemed out on the names of those that were presented for choose for the position. Also, he stated that they never said Obi was not good for them, but want to be part when decisions that concern us are being taken. “Five names for vice presidential position should have been from the five South-East states but there was no name from Ebonyi and Imo states,” he said. Meanwhile, Network for Advancement of Democracy (NEFAD) has expressed optimism that the choice of Abubakar and Obi will be a new direction to Nigeria. The National Co-ordinator of the group, Dr. Chike Onwe, who spoke with journalists in Abakaliki yesterday, said: “To a large extent, the product of the convention truly reflects the will and yearnings of Nigerian people.” Onwe, therefore, called on South-East leaders to mellow down on the fight of not being consulted on the choice of Obi as Atiku’s running mate but rather support him en-masse. In another development, the Pan-Igbo organisation, AlaIgbo Development Foundation (ADF), has said that President Muhammadu Buhari can only win in 2019 if the election is rigged. It, therefore, appealed to Igbo political class not to allow ambitions override Igbo fundamental interests.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .