 [FILE PHOTO] Atiku Abubakar  The former vice president wins the election with 1, 532 votes with the governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal, coming a distant second with 693 votes. The ever vocal Nigerians on Twitter have reacted to Atiku’s win as the opposition party flagbearer. On Atiku. We are stuck btw Devil & Deep Blue Sea APC shouldn’t tell us Atiku is corrupt – APC itself is full of thieves PDP shouldn’t tell us Atiku is fresh air – He was part of our problems Let’s stick to the real issues – contributions & capacity. Don’t be unfortunate pls — Ayò Bánkólé (@AyoBankole) October 7, 2018 This one, Atiku showed Wike that there is a difference between a man that learnt politics from Shehu Yar’Adua and one that threatens his party and its big wigs on national TV. Ano jati jati. Ino kina kina. — JJ. Omojuwa (@Omojuwa) October 7, 2018 Atiku and Buhari should debate their education and health policies on live TV. No expo. No help from aides. Man on man. — Dr. Dípò (@OgbeniDipo) October 7, 2018 Atiku and Buhari should debate their education and health policies on live TV. No expo. No help from aides. Man on man. — Dr. Dípò (@OgbeniDipo) October 7, 2018 Stand up for the champion. A healthy president!!!
A man that comprehends interactions.
A tested and trusted business man! My president that will wear suit, not take careless loans, and will actually propel our economy forward. Ladies and Gentlemen!! Alhaji @Atiku Abubakar!! pic.twitter.com/P60B8H2mhT — Cross˚ (@Elcrucifixio) October 7, 2018 It took @atiku 25 years, to be elected as the presidential candidate of his party.. Never Say Never!!! — Patriotic Nigerian (@thatnsukaboy) October 7, 2018 Atiku is the only Presidential aspirant in the PDP that didn’t visit Obasanjo for blessings. Maybe Obasanjo is overrated at the moment. — OLU LOCO (@tope414) October 7, 2018 If Atiku wins the presidency in 2019.
He might completely send,
Obasanjo and Tinubu into political irrelevance…
Meaning..Obasanjo can’t decide who becomes king any longer..
And Tinubu can’t dream of a 2023 presidency anymore.. — The Kingmaker (@SmithVinci) October 7, 2018 Atiku deserves some respect. He’s managed to stay relevant and powerful after all these years despite his corruption and Obasanjo baggages. I always admire great strategists and Atiku has proven himself one. — Gbolahan Yusuf (@G1gbolahan) October 7, 2018 To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .