Mr Nigeria 2018 finalists Having successfully hosted this year’s edition of the Most Beautiful Girl in Nigeria, which was clinched by Anita Ukah, who represented Imo state during the beauty pageant, Silverbird Entertainment has unveiled 20 contestants who will slug it out on Sunday during the grand finale of M Nigeria contest. Themed The Ideal Man, the lucky contestants have gone to camp ahead of the main event holding at the Atrium of the prestigious Silverbird Galleria, Victoria Island Lagos. The Red carpet starts at 5pm, with live broadcast of the event at 7pm on the Silverbird Television dream network online, satellite and terrestrial. While in camp, the contestants, who were drafted into the competition after a nationwide screening, will receive grooming in business mentorship, physical exercise, basic home management, catwalk, elocution among other etiquettes. The foremost Nigerian male competition will have distinguished Senator Florence Ita Giwa as the head of the panel of judges, which includes top fashion designer Mudi, security expert Kunle Komolafe, foremost PR practitioner Kufre Ekanem, top rated blogger Ono Bello and Denrele among others, will also feature performances from Olu Maintain, Koffi, Twizzy, Fire Blazers and others. Top bespoke designers, Chris & Steeze Clothing, David Wej will clothe the contestants for the fashion show segment of the event. Aside walking away with exciting prizes, the winner of the twenty eighteen Mr Nigeria contest will represent the country at the Mr World contest in Manila, Philippines in January. Past Mr Nigeria winners include Bryan Okwara 2007, Kenneth Okolie 2010, Deji Bakare 2012 and Emmanuel Ikubese current title holder who emerged first runner-up at the 2014 Mister World contest; together they have made remarkable impact in Nollywood and other career endeavours. This year’s competition is supported by Occasions and Events, David Wej, Chris and Steeze Clothings, Nelson Jack, K.Square Security, D-Blend Gastronomy, Silverbird News 24, Silverbird Group.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .