 [FILES] In this file photo taken on May 29, 2015 Senator Bukola Saraki. Saraki, a former governor of Kwara State, reacts in Abuja. Nigerian Senate president Bukola Saraki on July 31, 2018, quit the ruling party and joined the oppposition, dealing yet another blow to the country’s leader Muhammadu Buhari’s re-election bid. Pius Utomi EKPEI / AFP  However, in the politics of intrigues that followed the Saraki-must-go plan, which involved some known pro-Saraki Senators frequenting the Villa and the APC Abuja National Secretariat to pledge allegiance, the governors saw an opportunity to also deal with perceived enemies in the Senate and build a fresh nest of loyalists by coming up with their surrogates.
 
The result was a clash of interests between the party leadership and governors, who, in the attempt to consolidate their fiefdoms, openly challenged the party. While the Oshiomhole leadership was unyielding in its commitment to rein the governors in, it was also faced with the task of coming up with a list that could help in realising its determination to have Saraki removed.
 
In all these, the Senators were also taking advantage of the situation to lap on the party’s desire on Saraki, either by agreeing to the proposal or using it as a blackmail chip to get fresh tickets.And coming at a very tight period, when the two dominant parties, in their race for time, are foreclosing possibility of cross-over by disgruntled Senators that may receive the short end of the stick in the bargaining, it was obvious that personal political dexterity must be employed to save individual necks.
   
Aside the request for Saraki’s removal and the desire to retrieve the party from the vice grip of governors, there are other variables like intense power play between forces at state and regional levels that determined who eventually succeed in securing fresh tickets.
 
Although the picture of those who scaled the hurdle was still hazy last Friday, hours after the party met the October 18 deadline for submission of final lists of candidates for the National Assembly to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), many have been confirmed to have lost out in the power game that reached the climax in the last one week.
   
In Lagos State, where Tinubu, the main protagonist of Oshiomhole’s take-it-back and Saraki-must-go plans holds sway, the Senator representing Lagos East, Gbenga Asafa lost the bid for reelection, allegedly because of suspicion that he may be sympathetic to Saraki, while attempts by Ondo governor, Rotimi Akeredolu to deny the Senator representing Ondo North, Robert Ajayi Boroffice a third term ticket was foiled by the national leadership.
 
Boroffice is a known anti-Saraki Senator, who was denied a principal position at the commencement of the 8th Senate because of his preference for party directive that didn’t favour Saraki, and he parted ways with Akeredolu in the aftermath of the governorship primary elections he lost to the governor two years ago.
 
But because he sought the protection of Oshiomhole, who was bent on returning all anti-Saraki Senators to carry out his plan and the support of Tinubu, who of course is not on the same page with Akeredolu in APC Southwest politics, Boroffice got his ticket while the governor’s preferred aspirant, Dr. Tunji Abayomi was left in the cold.
 
In Kaduna, it was a battle between Senator Shehu Sanni and Governor Ahmed el-Rufai, and the Senator had to drop his open tacit support for Saraki, refused to follow him to the PDP as allegedly planned and sought the Presidency and the party leadership’s support. After a protracted political scheming that allegedly got Sanni to support the position on Saraki, he was eventually given the clearance to contest a second term.
 
Like Asafa in Lagos, examples of other APC Senators who lost to the power play that put them against superior forces are Lanre Tejuoso and Rilwan Akanbi, whose seats were desired by their governors, while many, because of other variables like local political configurations, did not secure fresh tickets. Yet there are others like Hope Uzodinma of Imo West, who, because of higher political interests, refused to seek reelection into the Senate.
There are also those whose seats were negotiated away in new political configurations, such as Fatima Raji Rasaki of Ekiti Central, whose seat was reserved for Opeyemi Bamidele, a former member of the House of Representatives, who escaped death by the whiskers, when he was hit by a stray bullet during the pre-election declaration campaign for the new governor, Kayode Fayemi.
 
With about 42 Senators not seeking or losing fresh tickets across the political parties and a substantial number of them in the APC, and the rest seeking to contest in an election that is already putting the two leading parties almost neck-to-neck, it is clear that the call by the party leadership for Saraki to be removed “by all means” has hit the rocks.
 
This is so because many of the lawmakers in the current political realities have no strings attaching them to the outcome of the party’s decision, as most of them would be at home in a tranquil chamber devoid of bitter bickering that may again result in scaling of fence to gain access.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .