 Women hold a  protest in front of Trump Tower in New York on October 4, 2018 against Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh. Top Republicans voiced confidence Thursday that Brett Kavanaugh will be confirmed to the US Supreme Court this weekend, as they asserted that an FBI probe had found nothing to support sex assault allegations against Donald Trump’s nominee.”Judge Kavanaugh should be confirmed on Saturday,” Senator Chuck Grassley of Iowa, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, told reporters. / AFP PHOTO / TIMOTHY A. CLARY  “The very rude elevator screamers are paid professionals only looking to make Senators look bad. Don’t fall for it!” Trump said on Twitter. “Also, look at all of the professionally made identical signs. Paid for by Soros and others. These are not signs made in the basement from love! #Troublemakers” The Senate was due Friday to vote on moving ahead with the nomination of Kavanaugh to the highest court in the US, as Republicans brushed aside complaints by Democrats that an FBI probe of sexual assault allegations against him was rushed and incomplete. A final vote could come Saturday on Trump’s embattled nominee, who if approved would seal a conservative majority on the nine-seat court for decades. On Thursday protesters swamped Capitol Hill and roamed the corridors of the Senate to lobby lawmakers who took turns in a secure basement room reviewing a single copy of the new FBI report on Kavanaugh. More than 300 people were arrested at the protests, including the comedian Amy Schumer, who is a second cousin of Senate Democrat leader Chuck Schumer, and model Emily Ratajkowski. US-Hungarian business magnate Soros was a supporter of Trump’s Democratic rival Hillary Clinton during the 2016 presidential election campaign. Listed by Forbes magazine as one of the world’s richest men, he is accused by nationalists around the world of sponsoring protests and seeking to push a liberal, multicultural agenda. In 1992, the Wall Street trader became known as “the man who broke the bank of England” when his aggressive speculation against the sterling sent it crashing out of the European exchange mechanism. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .