There are many arguments for male grooming especially in regards shaving their body hair. When we refer to ‘shaving’ here, the focus is not about shaving your facial hairs rather it is on shaving your body. There are endless questions as to what body parts should be shaved and what body parts should be left to grow wild and free. This dilemma has left many men confused whether it is a good idea to shave certain areas. In this article, we look at where should be shaved and what areas should be left alone. Mahershala Ali for Calvin Klein campaign Photo -Pinterest One sign attached to masculinity is leg and arm hair, so if you are looking for the macho male appeal, you might want to leave your hair on these parts. Unless you are an athlete who needs it for wound healing and aerodynamics, it is best you leave these parts as natural as possible. Another reason to consider leaving this is that body hair grows back when shaved and while this might be okay when it’s your face, you may find it uncomfortable for your arms and legs because they grow back thicker and faster. Always clean and fresh. Young shirtless African man using dry deodorant while standing against grey background This is a matter of preference but it should be necessary if you have the tendency to sweat a lot and smell as a result. Perhaps everyone sweats but the odour that comes off it is caused by gathered bacteria. These bacteria are much more likely to grow and multiply in the damp of the armpit hair. If you shave your armpits, there is less chance any bacteria will grow and so your deodorant will be much more effective. Man with chest hair Photo – Pinterest One major area of the shaving debate is the chest. Just like the legs, it boils down to preference. You may also want to consult your partner to ask them about their preference. As for the back, there is no thinking about it twice; you should consider getting rid of back hair if your aim is to be a groomed gentleman. Admittedly, it is not the easiest body part to shave, but it is very much worth it, you can even recruit someone to help with the task. This right here is a tricky business so, to put it bluntly, you need to have the balls for it (pun intended). Be sure it is something you are ready to commit to and you should opt for the trimmed look rather than a full-on hair or no hair at all. Depending on your preference, you can always go with what you want. Not every man wants to be covered in hair but not all have that choice so if you find yourself on the hairy side, you now know what areas you can shave.