 [FILE PHOTO] Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State  He made the allegation yesterday when the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)’s Peace and Reconciliation Committee visited him at his Maitama (Abuja) residence. The governor expressed his commitment towards ensuring that the party emerges victorious in the 2019 presidential election. “I want to reassure our party and Nigerians that I am committed to PDP’s success and victory at the general elections in February next year. We have had a robust and fruitful engagement on the way forward. “And I have made my commitment immediately after the convention that I am going to support our candidate, Atiku Abubakar 100 per cent for us to emerge victorious at the polls. So, I am not wavering on that and I am not looking back. “Work has started for us to ensure that the PDP family remains united and other lovers of democracy can partner with us to ensure that we convincingly win the general elections,” he stated. He expressed disappointment at the way Buhari was running his government, saying: “The maladministration and the way the country is being run through proxies is unacceptable. So, we don’t want a situation whereby that will continue after May 29. “We want a government in which the president will be right on top of issues. One that will respect the rule of law and so, I have given my commitment and by the grace of God, we shall support Atiku and PDP to win the elections throughout the country,” he said. Chairman of the committee, Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State, commended Tambuwal and the other presidential aspirants for their understanding and spirit of sportsmanship in the party’s just concluded national convention in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. He said the visit was part of PDP’s decision to visit all presidential aspirants who participated in the last primary election with a view to encouraging them as leaders of the party in their own rights. Dickson said the party had commenced consultations with all the aspirants and leaders of the party in it quest to recapture power from the All Progressives Congress (APC) next year. He added that as the country moves towards the 2019 elections, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and security agencies have a responsibility to ensure free, fair and credible elections in the country next year. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .