Buhari welcomed by a girl and Governor of Kaduna State Nasir El-Rufai as the President arrives Kaduna to meet religious leaders. Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday advised Kaduna state Governor Nasir El-Rufai that equality of opportunity, the creation of jobs and upholding law and order would prevent further crisis in the state. Buhari gave the advice during his condolence visit to Kaduna state where many people died after attacks by unknown gunmen. The attacks made the state governor Nasir El-Rufai impose a 24-hour curfew on residents on two occasions. But Buhari who assured the state government of support believes that human capital programmes would ensure cases of crisis are brought to the barest minimum. “You have a partner in the Federal Government that stands ready to provide concrete support not only to Kaduna but all states to help address the poverty and inequality that fuels some of these recurrent crises,” Buhari said. “We are doing our best to develop human capital and address poverty and inequality in all parts of the country. Providing decent education and health are my priority goals.” “We cannot kill and burn our way out of poverty and inequality. Strife can only deliver more pain and more strife. It is time to break out of a mindset that limits us from collaborating productively for the common good. Let us continue to work together, to put our people first and make their lives better,” Buhari said. The president also urged citizens to be law-abiding and be accommodating of each other irrespective of religious beliefs as “there is a need to avoid violence as a tool of negotiation or obtaining the advantage, and learn to listen to each other and commit to resolving differences through peaceful means.” “Let it be clear to all that individuals and communities have obligations to comply with the law and uphold peace. These obligations include respecting the rights of others to live wherever they choose, to worship freely and to pursue lawful livelihoods anywhere in this country. “These are constitutional and human rights that we as a government and people must uphold and depend,” Buhari said. Buhari stated that justice and due punishment would be meted to the perpetrators of the violent attacks. “The Federal Government will take strongest measures possible to punish perpetrators of these crimes. If in the past, they got away scot-free, we shall now hold everyone to account for these latest killings.” He assured victims of the post-2011 election violence of compensation, saying “I assure you that the Federal Government will give due consideration to the matter.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .