POE Following the success of his first two singles under Mavin Records, Mavin rapper, Ladipo Eso, better known by his stage name Poe or Ladipoe, has released his much-anticipated debut album, Talk About Poe (T.A.P), a 10-track offering. The prolific rapper rose to prominence as an affiliate of rap duo, ShowDemCamp (SDC). He forged his solo path with fan favourites Ko Ye Won and Gbe Sile, before becoming a breakout star with the hit single, Adore Her. Poe is top form throughout the new work, showing off the full range of his talent as a versatile but established rap artiste. With TAP, a collection of ruminations from his mind, he traverses several genres with finesse, including rap, dancehall, new highlife (palm-wine) and of course hip-hop.“It has taken me time to figure out what kind of artiste I am. A lot of people didn’t realize you could be a Nigerian and be yourself by being authentic and eclectic. Now I understand what kind of role my music plays, and what it will be in the future. I’m filling a void left open in the Nigerian music space,” he said. He begins the project with the reflective Voices, an outward expression of his inner monologues, touching on destiny, choices, life and the struggle to put art first. “Voices marks the moment when I heard my own voice above the noise. That song represents when I really started to talk about myself as Poe.”The first track gives way to Double Homicide Interlude, a lyrical killer featuring Ghost of Show Dem Camp, and a declaration of Poe’s independence when it comes to flow. There’s the occasional subtle and tasteful departure from the light-hearted, as is the case with Hello Goodbye, a breezy, melodic tune featuring Sir Dauda. The song tackles challenging topics like loss, regret and moving on. The album showcases other notable vocal acts, from powerhouse singers Seyi Shay and Efya to newcomer Tems and frequent collaborator Funbi, and masterful production from IKON, Otee Beats, Duggie and Spax. Widely recognized for his flow and technical skill as a rapper, drawing comparisons to artistes like J. Cole and Drake from fans and critics alike, Poe with new the project is a prime example of why everyone will ‘Talk About Poe’ for years to come. His music is often marked by witty one-liners or punchlines, which he trademarked as lifelines for their depth and delivery. Early on in his career, Poe became known for his lyrical prowess, as demonstrated on SDC’s hit single Feel Alright, which was nominated for Best Alternative Song of the Year (2013) at The Headies. He followed with several noteworthy features and collaborations, including a standout verse on Falz’s Marry Me, which won the 2015 Nigerian Entertainment Award (NEA) for Best Collaboration, and on M.I.’s All Fall Down, a year later – as one of only two featured artistes on Nigeria’s most famous rapper’s final mixtape. Poe has worked with notable names in the Nigerian music industry, including rappers Ice Prince and Reminisce, producers Juls, Ikon and Spax, and singers Seyi Shay and Niyola.As an original member of The Collectiv3, Poe appeared on the group’s LP, a 2015 compilation highlighting the best of Nigeria’s alternative music scene. Alongside SDC, Temi Dollface, Nsikak, and producers Ikon and Kid Konnect, Poe’s involvement in the project received international acclaim and rave reviews from media outlets such as The Fader, i-D Magazine and OkayAfrica. Signing with Don Jazzy’s Mavin Records signified a turning point in his career, but an even more significant one for the biggest record label in Africa, as he became label’s first rap act, which includes superstar singers, Tiwa Savage, Dr. Sid, Iyanya, D’Prince, Reekado Banks, Di’ja and Korede Bello. 