 coach Thomas Dennerby watches his women’s soccer team members practice during a training session at the London 2012 Olympic Games in Coventry July 27, 2012. REUTERS/Alessandro Garofalo (BRITAIN – Tags: SPORT OLYMPICS SPORT SOCCER)  A statement by Ademola Olajire, spokesperson of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF),  said 45 players made up of 29 home-based and 19 overseas-based professionals have been invited to camp. On the list of players who are expected to resume camp at the Jubilee Chalets, Epe, Lagos on Thursday are reigning African Woman Player of the Year, Asisat Oshoala, ace forward Desire Oparanozie, goalkeeper Chiamaka Nnadozie and defender Glory Ogbonna. There are also goalkeepers Alaba Jonathan and Tochukwu Oluehi, defenders Joy Jegede and Onome Ebi, midfielders Halimat Ayinde and Osarenoma Igbinovia, forwards Francisca Ordega and Anam Imo. Cup holders and winners of eight out of the 10 editions of the championship staged so far, the Super Falcons qualified to defend their title in Ghana after spanking their Gambian counterpart home and away in their only qualification fixture. ALL THE INVITED PLAYERS Goalkeepers: Tochukwu Oluehi (Rivers Angels); Christy Ohiaeriaku (Confluence Queens); Alaba Jonathan (Bayelsa Queens); Chiamaka Nnadozie (Rivers Angels); Onyinyechukwu Okeke (Edo Queens) Defenders: Glory Ogbonna (Ibom Angels); Joy Jegede (Bayelsa Queens); Ugochi Emenayo (Nasarawa Amazons); Maureen Okpala (Confluence Queens); Mariam Ibrahim (Nasarawa Amazons); Sarah Nnodim (Nasarawa Amazons) and Ngozi Ebere (Barcelona FC, Cyprus) Other defenders are Joy Duru (Nasarawa Amazons); Faith Michael (Pitea IF, Sweden); Onome Ebi (Henan Huisanhang, China); Juliet Lorliam (Nasarawa Amazons); Osinachi Ohale (Vaxjo DFF, Sweden); Josephine Chukwunonye (Asarum AIF, Sweden) Midfielders: Osarenoma Igbinovia (Bayelsa Queens); Christy Ucheibe (Nasarawa Amazons); Amarachi Okoronkwo (Nasarawa Amazons); Ogechi Ukwuoma (Pelican Stars); Peace Efih (Edo Queens); Bashirat Amoo (Confluence Queens); Goodness Onyebuchi (Sunshine Queens) and Nneka Julius (Edo Queens). The rest defenders are Patience Agbokade (Sunshine Queens); Mary Anjor (Osun Babes); Ngozi Okobi (Eskiltuna UTD, Sweden); Rita Chikwelu (Krstianstand DFF, Sweden); Christy Adule (Biik Kazygurt, Kazakhstan); Halimat Ayinde (Asarum AIF, Sweden); Ogonna Chukwudi (Krstianstand DFF, Sweden) Forwards: Chidinma Okeke (FC Robo Queens); Anam Imo (Nasarawa Amazons); Alice Ogebe (Rivers Angels); Joy Jerry (Bayelsa Queens); Chioma Wogu (Rivers Angels); Rasheedat Ajibade (FC Robo Queens); Asisat Oshoala (Dalian Quanjian, China) and Francisca Ordega (Washington Spirit, USA) The other defenders are Desire Oparanozie (En Avant Guingamp, France); Chinaza Uchendu (SC Braga, Portugal); Ebere Orji (Mallbackens Lysvik, Sweden); Esther Sunday (Konak Belediyespor); Uchechi Sunday; Courtney Dike (Oklahoma City, USA); Chinwendu Ihezuo (Biik Kazygurt, Kazakhstan) The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the 11th Women Africa Cup of Nations will be staged in the Ghanaian cities of Accra and Cape Coast from Nov. 17 to Dec. 1, 2018. The Draw for the eight-nation championship has been scheduled for Sunday, Oct. 21. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .