 APC leader, Adams Oshiomole  He pointed out that the APC should not take the Northeast (Borno, Gombe, Yobe, Bauchi, Adamawa and Taraba states) for granted in the 2019 general elections, as the zone may decide to vote against the party. Ibrahim, who blamed the ruling party for the nation’s tottering economy, also warned the APC against assuming that it would win the 2019 general elections through massive rigging. He stated this in Abuja during the Internet launch of his book titled: Poorlitics, stressing that the ruling party is not better than the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He accused the APC administration of being unable to actualise the positive change it promised the country. “We have certainly not done what I dreamed we will do, and in many ways, we are no better than the PDP that we sought to displace. Since APC came to power, things have not changed and many things are worse and Nigerians are very bitter,” he said. Ibrahim, a former Governor of Yobe State, further accused the ruling party of violating the rule of law, which is against the tenets of progressive politics it claimed to uphold. Meanwhile, Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom’s aide, Terver Akase, has stated that George Akume and the party’s governorship candidate, Emmanuel Jime’s campaign rally at Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camp in Daudu was a mockery of herdsmen’s attack on the victims. Akase, who wondered why the group chose IDPs camp for a political rally, when Akume and Jime promised that they were visiting the camp to donate relief materials, noted that it was the height of deceit when the IDPs discovered that their visit was actually for a campaign rally. “It is on record that Jime has never condemned the attacks and killings of Benue people by armed herdsmen. He did not send one relief material to the victims in various camps. “Now that electioneering campaigns are here, Jime has not only found his voice, but has also chosen to dance on the graves of the dead and mock the displaced persons by mounting on a campaign podium to deliver a ‘sermon’ on governance,” he stated. On challenging Ortom to a debate, Akase said, Jime doesn’t need to challenge Governor Ortom to a debate. “There will certainly be a debate before the 2019 elections where Jime will tell Benue people what he has done for them in his public service career and why he had remained silent over the attacks and killings of innocent people only to surface on the eve of elections to demand votes from the traumatised victims,” he said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .