Some few days ago, news went viral that nine times Grammy award-winning songstress, Rihanna turned down an opportunity to perform at the Super Bowl. The singer is reportedly not interested in headlining the Super Bowl LIII Halftime show because she is on team Colin Kaepernick. Kaepernick is the San Francisco 49ers’ former quarterback who kick-started the movement of kneeling during the national anthem at NFL games as a protest against the oppression of black people and minorities. Controversy ensued, and Rihanna has supposedly shown who she sides with amidst the free agent’s collusion lawsuit against the NFL. Maroon 5 | Just Dance Wiki – Fandom However, it is now being reported that singing group, Maroon 5 are hoping that the 30-year-old songstress will change her mind as they would love to perform with her at the Super Bowl LIII Halftime show which they are also billed for. According to a Hollywood Life report, had Rihanna chosen to accept the offer, she would likely have been the headliner considering how big a star she is. The Maroon 5 don’t mind sharing their spotlight though because a source told the publication, “Adam and the band are not mad, sad or anything in between that Rihanna was asked to do the Super Bowl. Adam knows that she has been probably asked for years and it doesn’t bruise his ego or the band’s ego because at the end of the day, they are going to put on a great show themselves!” Performing at the Super Bowl has been the band’s yearslong dream because Adam once admitted to Howard Stern in a 2015 interview that he and the band “very actively want to play the Super Bowl.” The source further claims, “They also hope she has her chance down the line to do it. And if she changes her stance this year, they would love her to join them to perform ‘If I Never See Your Face Again,’ the song they recorded together.” In case you forgot, Maroon 5 and Rihanna collaborated on a song in 2007! While the NFL hasn’t made an official announcement about the headliner, a report by Variety claims that the band is set to rock out in Atlanta’s Mercedes-Benz Stadium.