 [FILE PHOTO] IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu  The presidency yesterday declared that Nigeria is strong enough to defend its territory against any threat.Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, who said this in a statement, assured Nigerians that there is no reason to worry about the hollow outburst by Kanu, on returning to the country “with hell.” Instead, we see the re-enactment of his bizarre, episodic threat as a mere distraction, which will not be allowed to detract from the existing cordial relationships between Nigeria and other countries. “The Buhari administration is in constant touch with other friendly nations and has the best assurances that they would continue to reciprocate the respect Nigeria has for the sovereignty of their nations,” he said.Shehu, in an interview on the BBC Hausa Service also disclosed yesterday that Kanu’s trial would continue anytime he returns to the country. He said the Nigerian government was put under pressure over false accusations that Kanu had either been killed or was kidnapped.He stated: “If it happens to be true, the video footage showing Kanu has revealed the truth about his alleged assassination against the Nigerian government. People will know who lied between the government and those who made the accusations. Kanu’s trial would be expected to continue, should he return to the country.” Kanu had in his broadcast pledged to return to the country soon, and urged his supporters to boycott the 2019 general elections. “I have returned full-time and I’m coming back home and I will bring hell with me,” he said. Meanwhile, the Department of State Services, (DSS) has denied that five of its operatives aided Kanu’s escape from the country.A statement yesterday in Abuja by its Public Relations Officer, Peter Afunanya, described the purported report as fake, mischievous and defamatory. Afunanya said the stock in trade of Kanu and his collaborators, was to peddle rumours, gossips and propaganda to subvert the government, its key agencies and officials.He disclosed that the service was aware that some unscrupulous elements were keen on exploiting the situation to constitute a nuisance to the freedom of Nigerians as guaranteed in the constitution. According to him, “the elements were also planning to disrupt the forthcoming 2019 general elections,’ warning: ‘the DSS will not idly standby and watch these undesirable elements achieve their aims.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .