Siyavula, online education platform, is set to delight young scholars in mathematics with the launch of a new e-learning service called Aspire Maths. The launch, which took place last Monday, is being done with the support of 9mobile, award-winning telecommunications company and leader in youth development According to Siyavula’s management, Aspire Maths is designed to make learning and understanding Mathematics fun for millions of Nigerian students, by delivering unlimited practice questions within the JSS 1 – SSS 3 curriculum directly to their mobile phones, immediately marking their answers and providing detailed explanatory solutions. The intelligence of the service automatically adapts the type and difficulty level of each question to meet the needs of each individual student. This service, which aligns with the commitment of both organisations to the advancement of mathematics education in Nigeria, is easy to access on any internet-connected device and can be enjoyed with just a token amount payable to Siyavula Education via 9mobile’s 9pay payment solution. Speaking on this innovative service, the Head of Digital Media, 9mobile, Bolanle Afuye, said “Aspire Maths is a learning service which focuses on increasing the interest of students in mathematics”. “Science and technology have never been more important to our national development than they are today. Countries are taking giant strides into the future riding on the back of breakthroughs in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics.This is why at 9mobile, we are passionate about developing the capacity of our youths to lead the revolution in science and technology for Nigeria. The launch of Aspire Maths in partnership with Siyavula Education, an international leader in Math and science education, affirms our commitment to continue to innovate with solutions that will build the ability of Nigerian youth to effectively assume this role.” She further revealed that as a way of making sure that this service gets to as many students as possible, Google.org, the charitable arm of search engine giant Google, has sponsored free access to Aspire Maths for 150,000 public school students in Nigeria, stating that these free subscriptions are now available to 9mobile customers at www.maths.ng.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .