Former Minister of Education and Convener of the Bring Back Our Girls campaign,  Obiageli Ezekwesili, has chosen to contest for the president in 2019 on the platform of the Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN) Ezekwesili was adopted as the ACPN presidential candidate after a voice affirmation by party members on Sunday during its national onvention in Abuja. Delivering her acceptance speech, Ezekwesili said declaring to run for the office of the president is the toughest decision she ever had to make. She said her decision to contest in 2019 is borne out of the economic inequality and insecurity in the land. The former vice president of the World Bank insisted that the present ruling All Progressives Congress has failed to live up to its campaign promises, therefore, should be voted out in 2019. “In place of unity in diversity, we are faced with division. The light of which we have not seen since the civil war in our country. The ruling political class stock division among the people using language likes 97 percent and five per cent” “I, therefore, offer myself today to lead a people’s movement that will permanently terminate the old order of bad leadership, ethnic and religious division, mediocrity and failure in Nigeria| Ezekwesili who vowed to tackle the security problem in the middle belt and other parts of the country noted that the high points of her government would be based on four principal points: High standard of living, high knowledge capital, life longevity and making a good decision regarding the country’s diversity. She further berated the present administration for its failure to reform the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), pledging that when she comes on board, reorganizing the corporation would be a priority. “Some of the most sustainable and transparent laws have my imprint today. This government does not want to reform NNPC to be efficient. I will immediately start the process of making NNPC a corporation that is transparent and faces the discipline of the marketplace,” she said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .