 Member, House of Representatives, Joseph Akinlaja (left); Presidential candidate of the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP); Dr. Olusegun Mimiko, Governorship candidate of ZLP in Ogun State, Segun Odegbami, at a town hall meeting, tagged: “Conversation with Mimiko’ in Ibadan…yesterday  Mohammed, who spoke with The Guardian, urged Nigerians to be wary of the way they hand over the second term to President Muhammadu Buhari. He also cautioned against supporting the presidential candidate of the opposition Peoples democratic party (PDP), former Vice President Atiku Abubakar. Mohammed, who is the vice presidential candidate to Duke, justified his position by arguing that both Buhari and Atiku lacks the wherewithal to administer the country.“I will not choose Buhari because he is incompetent and full of nepotism, even as those around him are so corrupt. Buhari cannot even maintain discipline in his own house. Why should I elect him?” He explained that when a nation is faced with its most challenging circumstances, he doesn’t see why we should pick the least competent, least educated person and ask him to continue. The SDP presidential running mate said: “Atiku is a lesser evil, but he has had this terrible reputation of being corrupt and morally bankrupt. And he is the kind of person who is desperate for power, which is very dangerous.” Meanwhile, the presidential candidate of the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), Dr. Olusegun Mimiko yesterday pledged to rescue Nigeria from incompetent leaders and corruption.Mimiko, who made the promise at a town hall meeting in Ibadan, tagged “Conversation with Mimiko,” said the nation’s socio-political and economic status have continued to wobble due to the lack of leadership with vision. Mimiko, a former governor of Ondo State, said Buhari was not fighting corruption properly, adding that he would employ better tools to make the fight effective.Dignitaries in attendance were the ZLP gubernatorial candidate in Oyo, Segun Odegbami, the party’s state Chairman, Wole Abisoye, Prof. Dupe Olatubosun. Others were Secretary General of the Yoruba Council of Elders (YCE), Dr. Kunle Olajide, Mr. Bimbo Adepoju, and Dr. Olapade Agoro of the National Action Council.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .