Canadian rapper, Drake has opened up about his son, Adonis in his first interview about interview describing the boy as having “crazy blue eyes.” The multiple Grammy awards-winning music star who welcomed the child in 2017 with French artist and former adult film star Sophie Brussaux, talked about his son, the child’s mother, his own upbringing and his past relationship with pop star, Rihanna during an interview with LeBron James and Maverick Carter on the new HBO Sports show The Shop on Friday, October 12th. “I have a son, he’s a beautiful boy,” the rapper said about the baby, showing the NBA star an image of the child on his phone. “Crazy blue eyes, bro,” James responded. “Crazy blue eyes, baby blue eyes,” Drake said. “You know he’s already in the pool like shooting the basketball,” the rapper continued. “He’s gonna get to a certain age, I’m gonna bring him right to ‘Bron’s house and I’ma be like, ‘Yo, summer camp at Bronny’s house!” During the interview, Drake did not name his son or the child’s mother, who he is not in a romantic relationship with. “I am a single father learning to communicate with a woman who, you know, we’ve had our moments,” he said. “I do want to be able to explain to my son what happened. But I don’t have any desire for him to like not love his mother or I don’t want like, I don’t ever want the world to be angry at his mother. Like, we have found ourselves in a situation and we are both equally responsible and now, like, I’m just really excited to be a great father.” Drake whose parents divorced when he was five years old also talked about his upbringing saying, “I was really hard on my parents for giving me sort of a childhood that I had to wrap my mind around as I grew,” he said. “I multiple times sort of suggested that they could have done a better job of whatever it was, co-parenting, sticking together, you know, not being so divided.” “As life takes shape and teaches you your own lessons, I end up in this situation where I don’t have the fairy tale, like, ‘Oh, Drake started a family with Rihanna and this is like so perfect’…it looks so good on paper,” the rapper continued. “By the way, I wanted that too at one time.” The rapper talked about his own parents’ strained relationship on The Shop and said he has “unconditional love” for the mother of his child. “Because I want [my son] to love his mother and I have to project that energy,” he said. “But I didn’t come from that. I came from my mother being like, ‘Nah, your dad is this.'” But one thing my dad would never speak ill of my mother, ever ever ever, and my mother is the nicest, kindest, sweetest woman, but she’s a woman scorned and a woman who, you know, is exhausted.”