 Securities and Exchange Commission  They, however, regretted that the capital market continued to trail behind its peers in other countries with the current N11 trillion market capitalisation, which they attributed largely to poor performance of the 166 listed firms, and limited number of issuers in the last few years.  Foreign portfolio investors still dominate the market with their hot money, and strategy of flight for safety after slight perception of instability. Unstable macroeconomic policies and unguarded utterances by politicians on what may happen in the 2019 general election are building up country risk. Investors are nervous every day; dumping shares, causing downward valuation across broad spectrum of the market. “At 58, the market has demonstrated resilience and it holds promise for all classes of investors locally and internationally. But a lot has to be done by the government to stabilise the system, turn around the economy, encourage quoted companies to operate optimally, and implement all financial inclusion policies to sustain investor confidence.”
   
The Nigerian equity market recorded improved performance in 2017, and emerged the third best performing exchanges in the world with a year to date increase of N4.5 trillion in market capitalisation to N13.519 trillion on December 28, NSE) All-Share Index (NSE ASI), to 37,990.74. “The NSE’s capitalisation has dropped from N15 trillion to N11 trillion. The major problem with the NSE is bad economy. The capital market functions well when the economy is not thriving. When there is no money out there to buy shares, people compete between the money market and capital market,” Oni added. The Securities and Exchange Commission (NSE), had taken various initiatives to boost investors’ confidence, notable among them being the establishment of the National Investors Protection Fund, to cushion the adverse effect of losses suffered in the capital market, the e-dividend policy designed to minimise cases of unclaimed dividend.
   
According to the Founder, Independence Shareholders Association of Nigeria, Sir Sunny Nwosu, cited political interference in economic activities as the bane of economic development.
 
“NSE can function very well if the economy is booming because the market does not fuel the economy. If there is money, investors will invest and help grow the capitalisation. If the is no money, the NSE cannot succeed on their projects and people will not buy shares. The Head, Banking and Finance, Nasarawa State University, Prof. Uche Uwaleke, said the capital market has recorded significant milestones since the establishment of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (then Lagos Stock Exchange) in 1960. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .