 Governor Ibikunle Amosun<br />Twitter/Govsia  The Muhammad Ndabawa-led electoral committee sent to Ogun State by the National Working Committee(NWC) of the party on Wednesday evening declared Dapo Abiodun winner of the direct governorship primary of Ogun APC for the 2019 gubernatorial election. While the party had been polarised following adoption of Akinlade as a consensus governorship candidate by the Amosun-led faction of the party ahead of the primary election, the tussle of the mode of election remained a concern. Although the governor and other members of his faction moved for an indirect mode, the five aspirants rejected the indirect primary mode, which was also kicked against by the National Working Committee (NWC). On Tuesday, the state chapter the party declared the Amosun-backed party exco consensus governorship candidate, Akinlade, as the winner of a primary election conducted on Tuesday. The party state chairman, Chief Derin Adebiyi, who announced the results at the APC state secretariat in Abeokuta, claimed that Akinlade polled 190,987 votes out of 201,620 valid votes cast across the 236 wards in the state. However, the results were not signed by the chairman of the electoral committee and none of the agents of the five other gubernatorial aspirants. Another election was conducted by the NWC on Wednesday throughout the 236 wards across the 20 Local Governments Area of Ogun State. The chairman of the committee Ndabawa said Abiodun polled 102, 305 votes to emerge winner. Akinlade scored 23, 443 votes, Jimi Lawal scored 51, 153 votes while Abimbola Ashiru polled 29, 764 votes. Other contestants Senator Gbenga Kaka got 17,771 votes and Abayomi Hunye 9,110 votes. He, however, noted that the declaration of Abiodun winner of the primary and governorship candidate of APC in Ogun state for 2019 governorship election, is “subject to ratification by the National Working Committee” of the party. Meanwhile, a former Minister of State for Education, Senator Iyabo Anisulowo, on Wednesday blamed the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and the national chairman of APC  Adams Oshiomhole for the crisis rocking the Ogun State chapter of the party. Anisulowo also accused a former governor of the state, Chief Olusegun Osoba, of being complicit in the alleged plot to disrupt the governorship agenda of the people of Ogun West Senatorial District in the state which has not produced governor since the creation of the state 40 years ago. Anisulowo specifically said Osinbajo was backing Abiodun, because of “friendship”. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .