 Standards Organisation of Nigeria  Apart from that, the manufacturers said, it is also impacting negatively on the reputations of those whose products are adulterated and high unemployment rates in the country. Outgoing President, Paints Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (PMA), Mr. Rotimi Aluko, who raised the alarm at the 30th yearly general meeting of the body in Lagos, said the effort of Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) to rid the industry of fake and substandard products through monitoring  and enforcement of standards has not yielded  the desired results. According to him, it is high time the agency and the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration (NAFDAC) made it compulsory for all paint manufacturers in Nigeria to be registered with them individually given their involvement with standards for products and chemicals respectively. He however stressed the preparedness of the body to continue to collaborate with the agency  on the way forward with the hope  that with the coming  into operation of the revised  standards for paints, the organization  will be able to  do more in reducing   the level of adulteration and faking in the paints industry. On governments’ patronage of made in Nigeria paints and other products, Aluko said,  it has not been encouraging considering the fact that  government  is the highest spender in an economy. He therefore urged government to show example by directing all its ministries, departments and agencies to henceforth ensure that their procurement departments buy from local manufacturers and suppliers. The crave for imported goods by most Nigerians, he said, should stop, starting with government. The president, who said the problem of infrastructural deficiencies of roads and public utilities still pose a serious challenge to the survival  of paint industry  and Nigerian economy  appealed to government  to come up with policies  that increase patronage  of Nigerian made paints by embarking for example  on urban renewal and modernization in all cities. On his part, PMA new president, Mr. Abimbolu Babatunde noted that the crisis in  Nigerian manufacturing sector and expressed commitment towards  waging war against adulteration and faking of members products in collaboration  with the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON). He also said PMA would be liaising with SON  on standards for the industry as well as the implementation  and enforcement of standards  for various paints. Babatunde stressed the need for more collaboration with the Raw Materials Research and Development Council (RMRDC) on local sourcing  and development of paints raw materials  for the industry as well as having  closer cooperation with Manufacturing Association of Nigeria (MAN) and the sector in the areas of tariffs on imported inputs and finished products. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .