Cleric condemns killings, urges end to crisis
Igbo traders in Kaduna City have refused to open their business premises for operation despite the review of curfew hours from 6:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. The fear of the unknown gripped many residents in the metropolis from resuming their normal duties yesterday following the attack by hoodlums, which resulted to loss of lives and property. At the popular Ahmadu Bello Way, Junction Road, Katsina Road, Kachia Road and other highbrow locations, business premises of Igbo traders were under lock and keys apparently for fear of the unknown. The few of them that opened did so partly to pick one or two things left behind last week when the crisis occurred, but declined comment to newsmen when approached. Inside the Central Market, shops belonging to Igbo and some other Christians were seemed locked, although their counterparts were busy marketing their goods. Although shops were opened in Christian-dominated areas like Sabon Tasha, Television garage, Barnawa, among others, by the Igbo, banks that opened closed before 2.30 p.m. However, all efforts to get some Igbo traders speak on the issue proved abortive due to inability to locate them. Meanwhile, the prophet of Christ Apostolic Church (CAC), Oke-Aanu, Erio-Ekiti, Ekiti State, Sam Olu-Alo, has condemned the killing of innocent citizens in Kaduna State, calling on the government to take appropriate action to permanently end the crisis. Olu-Alo said that shedding of innocent blood under any guise is abominable, urging the Federal Government to show more commitment in ending bloodshed across the country. The cleric, who stated this while speaking with newsmen in the church auditorium in Erio-Ekiti yesterday, also lamented the increase rate of fake prophets in the country, urging Christian leaders to address the situation by nipping it in the bud. He attributed the myriad of challenges confronting Nigeria to the alleged unwholesome activities of those he described as ‘selfish cabals’ in the government of President Muhammadu Buhari. He then advised the new administration of Governor Kayode Fayemi in Ekiti State to always seek God’s direction for him to have a successful tenure. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .