Niger State Christian Youth Forum has faulted the deliberate efforts by the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to exclude Christians from politics and governance in the state. In a statement by its Publicity Secretary, Mr. J.A Gusadi, the group claimed that the composition of the parties’ gubernatorial candidates and running mates relegated adherents of the Christian faith to the background even when they constitute a formidable voting block in the state. This is just as a former aspirant for the Ankpa/Olamaboro/Omala Federal Constituency seat in the House of Representatives, Aurelius Yusuf Adejoh, declared that impunity and imposition, which were the hallmark of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), had been upgraded in the build up to the 2019 election. Speaking recently at his official declaration to return to All Progressives Congress (APC) along with over 2,000 supporters in his country home, Adeh, in Olamaboro Local Government Council of Kogi State, Adejoh said just as the leopard does not change its spot, PDP has perfected its rascality in trampling on the will of the people. He said he was moved to return to PDP, where he was one of the founding members when they promised to jettison their old ways of impunity and imposition of candidates for participatory democracy. He regretted that the impunity exhibited by  PDP in its recent primaries has compelled him to have a rethink, as he could not blindly remain in a place where his interest was not protected. Adejoh added that the PDP he joined is not a party that accommodates his interest hence he has no reason not to return to where he belongs, which is APC, adding: “After the national convention of PDP on 9th September, 2017, the chairman that emerged, Uche Secondus, apologized on national television that they were renouncing the havoc they caused by their vindictive politics of imposition and impunity, that they would not go back to their old ways. “So with the unresolved crises in APC then between Bello and Faleke group’s we said let us give them a trial. Unfortunately, when the primaries of the party came up, instead of improving, it became worse than before.” The Christian group in Niger argued that the choice of Muslim- Muslim candidates by the leading parties does not truly reflect the composition of the state, which by estimation is equally populated by adherents of both Muslim and Christian faith. They therefore called on the political leaders in the state to revisit the decisions by the two main parties to reflect a fair outlook of inclusiveness aimed at ending the worrisome trend of marginalization and unfair treatment being meted to Christians in the state. It noted: “The outright disregard to the request by CAN is not acceptable by us, as it does not portray the state in its right composition and the decision is viewed as a total disregard on the collective intelligence of hard working thousands of Christians in Nigeria State. “We have capable hands in various fields of human endeavour who are willing to contribute immensely to the development of our dear state, hence we are requesting that both APC and PDP reconsider their decision of featuring same faith tickets and tap on the willingness and commitment of the Christian community to partner with every well meaning indigene of the state to build the Niger State of our dream. “We are committed to teaming up with our Muslim brothers and sisters to work assiduously to deliver dividends of democracy to the good people of Niger State. We, by this statement call on the major actors to demonstrate their independence and executive powers to make immediate changes to reflect our request and grant us all the opportunity to build the state together.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .