 Obiageli Ezekwesili, Co-Founder, Bring Back Our Girls on ‘African Jihad’ at The 2016 Women In The World Summit, NYC, New York; 4/6/2016  The former Minister of Education, who is the presidential candidate of the Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN), said she joined the race to deliver the country from corrupt politicians who have failed the people.She said the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have failed in governance, hence the need for a new crop of people. According to her, only self-centered and visionless people are currently leading the nation’s political class.“There is a strong apathy out there for a new nation. We are going to get a new nation. We are going to walk the street, and we are going to walk everywhere.“We are going to do what it takes. We know that even the divine is tired of seeing Nigeria fail. We are running to win. I am not running because I am Oby Ezekwesili,” she said.She urged the citizens to support her movement, promising that the aim was to build a new nation. Read More: ACPN adopts Oby Ezekwesili presidential candidate Meanwhile, participants at the Trinity Leadership Conference 2018 want the electorate to vote for only competent and intelligent leaders.The conference was convened by Senior Pastor, Trinity House, Ituah Ighodalo, who explained that Trinity Foundation was created with the vision to identify the leadership gap in the society. It also seeks to provide workable solutions, be the conscience of the society, speak the truth to leadership and ensure good governance in a free, fair, egalitarian society.Some of the participants at the event include: Brand specialist Leke Alder, founder, Rise Network, Toyosi Akerele-Ogunsiji, Investment Banker, Bayo Rotimi, CEO, Master Builder Communications. Others are Dr. Bolaji Akinyemi, Life coach, Tunji Odewunmi, Education and Organisation Development consultant, Olusola Adeola. The theme of the conference was: “The Yearnings of a Nation.”The forum said the 2019 election presents a golden choice to go back to the past, or move to the future. The participants stressed that Nigerians must begin to question their leaders, starting from the local government level. “We must ask questions about the competence, intelligence, and capacity of our next generation of leaders. We must not replace the old irresponsible with young irresponsible leaders. Changing the mindset is therefore paramount. The ignorance of voter puts the security and well being of all of us in danger,” they said. According to them, “our problems are not insurmountable. We need critical thinking to resolve them. We need the right people making the right decisions. All Nigerians must fight our challenges and our maladies and free the creative capabilities of its people. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .