Super Eagles captain Mikel Obi has promised to provide financial assistance for the Nigeria Amputee Eagles in their quest to gather funds for the World Cup in Mexico. The Tianjin Teda midfielder was not part of the Super Eagles squad that gifted the Special Eagles about N6 million. The Super Eagles led by Ogenyi Onazi during the two legged qualifier against Libya offered their financial support to the Amputee team after they heard of their struggles to cover travel, camping and logistics expense. The Nigeria Football Federation also gave the Special Eagles N2.5 million. The Amputee Eagles under the aegis of the Sports Ministry have had to seek other means to cover their expense. The team opened a crowdfund and sold their bright-coloured jerseys hoping to gather enough funds for the trip to Mexico. With the travel costs still not complete the team has to send the team in batches. Fred Edoreh, the coordinator of the fundraising told BBC Sport that Mikel’s help will ensure the other batch gets to Mexico to join the first team when they leave. “We’ve spoken to a representative of John Mikel Obi who has offered to help the team,” Edoreh told BBC “Time is running out on us and with ticket costs increasing by the day towards our opening game against our budget, we are taking the hard decisions of sending the first team as first batch. “This is to avoid heavier cost and also get the boys to settle down before the game against Brazil on Sunday. “The first batch (eight players and coach) should have left today (Tuesday) but there were not enough seats on the last lap of the journey, from Mexico City to Guadalajara. “Our travel agents are working hard to secure space for them by tomorrow, Wednesday. So they are expected to depart Lagos by 12 noon with Ethiopia Airlines.” “This will help us to secure our presence and avoid a global sanction. Hoping with additional funds, the reserve team can depart on Thursday or Friday.” The Amputee World Cup kicks off October 24 in San Juan and Guadalajara, Mexico. Nigeria is grouped alongside defending champions Russia, Brazil and El Salvador. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .