Katsina State Governor, Aminu Bello Masari has defeated other contestants to emerge victorious in the state’s All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primaries.
Announcing the results, Chairman Electoral Committee, Isa Adamu, said Masari polled 5,627 votes, his closest rival, Abubakar Ismaila Isa scored eight votes, while the third contestant, Garba Sani Dankane scored one vote. The exercise, which began early hours of Sunday, saw a total of 5,959 delegates registered for the exercise but 5,627 delegates voted, while 56 of the votes cast were invalid.Similarly, Yakubu Lado Danmarke has emerged winner in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship primaries, defeating five other contestants by 3,385 votes to clinch the party’s ticket. Chairman, Electoral Committee, Bala Adamu announced the results, saying three of the contestants, Umar Abdullahi, Garba Faskari and Sada Ilu did not score any votes during the exercise. He said two other contestants, Aminu Ahmed Yar’Adua and Musa Nashuni, scored 243 and one vote respectively, while 28 votes were rendered invalid, as 3,684 delegates participated in the primaries. However, Masari cautioned APC members against violence and bloodletting as long as the party’s primaries lasted.He said it was normal for tension to build up during political exercises, especially among groups supporting different candidates, adding that such should not be allowed to degenerate to shedding of blood. Meanwhile, Sokoto State Deputy Governor, Ahmed Aliyu, has emerged APC flag bearer for the 2019 governorship election. Aliyu, who had remained in the APC after Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal defected to the PDP, defeated three other aspirants in yesterday’s primaries election.Chairman of the governorship primary election, Sulaiman Abubakar, said Aliyu scored 2,282 votes to beat his closest rival and former Commissioner of Finance, Faruk Yabo, who scored 837 votes. Abubakar Gumbi, scored 70 votes, Yusuf Abubakar Gada polled 20 votes, while 397 votes were declared invalid.In his acceptance speech, Aliyu urged his fellow contestants to support his candidacy and work together to ensure that the party wins next year’s elections. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .