 CCTV  Security operatives yesterday nabbed three gunmen on the premises of a new generation bank in Amarata, a suburb of the Bayelsa State capital, Yenagoa. The incident happened in the early hours of the day at the bank’s branch located in Amarata, in Yenagoa Local Government Area. A source, who preferred anonymity, told newsmen that one of the gunmen was sighted by the bank’s manager who was watching through the Close Circuit Television (CCTV) in his office. He immediately alerted security agents at the bank who swung into action immediately. They took the suspect to a corner of the bank for interrogation, which led to the discovery of a pistol in his pocket. The suspect revealed upon interrogation that there were two other members of his gang outside the bank premises, allegedly waiting to rob one of the bank’s customers. The suspects were also immediately arrested, with one pistol each in their pockets and they were handed over to the police. When contacted, the Bayelsa Police Command spokesperson, Asinim Butswat, said he had yet to be briefed on the incident. In another development, the police in Lokoja, Kogi State capital yesterday said two suspects had been arrested for allegedly being in possession of fake $800,000 notes. Kogi Police Command Spokesman, Aya Williams, said in a statement in Lokoja that the suspects, Sofianu Seidu and Aliu Ismaila, were arrested in their hideout along Lokoja-Abuja highway on October 10. According to him, the suspects have confessed that their intention was to use the fake dollars to dupe unsuspecting citizens. Also, two suspects were arrested for offences of criminal conspiracy, kidnapping and culpable homicide. According to the statement, the suspects, Tairu Kadiri Amedu, 35 and Aleru Suleiman, 38, were smoked out from their hideout just as the lifeless body of their victim, Sanni David Aliu, 53, was also recovered. The statement reads in part: “Consequent upon the activities of criminal elements such as kidnapping, armed robbery and cultism within Kogi State, the Commissioner of Police, CP Ali A. Janga, deployed some strategies and directed the Federal Special Anti robbery Squad (FSARS) in the state to hunt for the criminal elements terrorizing the state and ensure they are arrested. “In compliance with the directives, the FSARS in synergy with the operatives of the Department of State Service (DSS) acted on a tip-off that one Sanni David Aliu of Ankpa was kidnapped by unknown hoodlums. The combined team swung into action through intelligence-led operation, stormed the kidnappers hideout and arrested the suspects. Their victim was discovered dead and the body recovered from their den. “Exhibits recovered from the suspects include 11 assorted SIM cards, eight assorted SIM card certificates, 29 pieces of fake US Dollars, 23 pieces of fake Euro currency, seven assorted mobile phones and seven ATM cards.”The statement indicated that the suspects would be arraigned in court on completion of investigation.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .