 Olisa Agbakoba  The national chairman of the party and former president of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Dr. Olisa Agbakoba (SAN), made the announcement in a statement yesterday in Lagos. The legal icon said “party faithful as well as ideological and political allies of the movement are expected to storm the national convention of PT where far- reaching decisions about future and leadership of the party and Nigeria will be taken, especially as regards the state of Nigeria and the forthcoming general elections in 2019.” According to the statement signed by the National Secretary of PT, Mallam Naseer Kura, eminent leaders of thought expected to address the special elective national convention are Prof. Wole Soyinka as keynote speaker, President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ayuba Waaba; President of United Labour Congress (ULC), Comrade Joe Ajearo; Convener of Summit of the Alternatives (SOTA) and former Minister of Education, Dr. Oby Ezekwesili; and the Executive Director of the Awolowo Foundation, Dr. Tokunbo Awolowo- Dosumu. Others include former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Ghali Umar Naaba; former military governor of Kaduna State, Col Abubarkar Umar Dangiwa; son of former Prime Minister, Dr. Abduljalil Tafawa Balewa; and son of former Biafran Leader, Chief Debe Odumegwu-Ojukwu. The first ever convention of the party, which is slated to hold at Lagos Airport Hotels, Ikeja, is also expected to witness primaries for PT aspirants in the 2019 elections as well as elections into party offices. At the event, the review of PT constitution and manifesto shall be ratified, name and logo reviewed and the newly formalised strategic alliance and MOU for technical fusion with other political parties, movement and aspirants shall be ratified. Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will today hold a marathon meeting with all its 13 presidential aspirants to explore further opportunities of having a hitch-free primary election. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .