 HIV. PHOTO CREDIT: https://img.huffingtonpost.com/<br />  Mr Steve Aborisade, Advocacy and Marketing Manager AHF, who disclosed this in a statement in Abuja, said the foundation is the largest AIDS organisation operating in 41 countries worldwide. “AHF is honoured to announce that it has surpassed a remarkable milestone in its history from the start of this month.“AHF is now providing HIV and AIDS medical care and services to 1,004,228 patients worldwide including Africa, United States, Europe, Latin America, Caribbean and Asia. “AHF Africa, Nigeria inclusive, leads the way, with over 500,000 patients in care in 13 African nations of the 41 countries globally that AHF operates in,’’ he said.
Mr Michael Weinstein, AHF’s President, expressed excitement at the most momentous achievement in the 31 years history of AHF. He added that it was an achievement proudly shared by many dedicated staff, board members, partner organisations, volunteers, families, friends and patients.“Just three short years ago, we marked 500,000 patients in care, to now reach over twice that number, 1million lives, is simply incredible. “I congratulate and thank all who helped us reach this remarkable milestone today, also to remind people that there is still much more work to be done.“As we carry on, I am confident that the leadership of AHF’s domestic and global programmes has the capability to take us onward and upward. “And also to bring more and more people into the lifeboat of care and treatment over the next five years,’’ Weinstein said.Dr Echey Ijezie, AHF Nigeria Country Programme Director, described the landmark achievement by AHF as a remarkable feat which proves that with dedication and commitment it was possible to wipe out AIDS in our society. Ijezie acknowledged Nigeria’s contribution to the achievement of 1 million in care landmark by AHF, adding that Nigeria is motivated to achieve more with a redoubled effort to work collaboratively with the government.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .