 Babatunde Gbadamosi  Gbadamosi noted that given the state’s potential and the huge tax revenue it earns, there is enough to provide meaningful standard of living for the people. He assured that if given the opportunity to serve and he emerges as the next governor of the state, he would apply adequate measures that would give the citizens clean environment and confortable living conditions. He lamented that taxpayer’s money has been mismanaged in past years due to the activity of godfathers and mediocre governance, and stressed the need for “focused and purposeful leaders that would not be distracted by godfathers and corrupt party members.” While outlining his plans for Lagos, the ADP governorship hopeful stated that his policies cut across power, water, transportation, housing, public hygiene, healthcare and education. He also expressed optimism that with tourism, agriculture, financial services, trade, industry and entertainment, the state and its people would progress. While promising transparency and open-door policy in governance covering all aspects of the economy, Gbadamosi declared: “A win for me is a win for the people. It connotes economic, political and social freedom for the citizens. For the first time in 20 years, citizens will be able to explore all possibilities and enjoy their own resources and purposeful leadership “I know it is going to be a long and hard battle to get the youths (70 per cent of the electorates) to forgo some kind of distractions and compulsion from unscrupulous people, but they have to beat the challenges. Positive engagement with young people from all walks of life is something we are going to do, whether through direct employment, mentorship or motivation it is going to be an all-inclusive government. “We intend to continue with these, whilst also mobilising grassroots support for a final departure from the path of misery and poverty that Lagos State is in at the moment. The parlous state of affairs in Lagos means we need a broad and holistic approach to our plan to fix Lagos.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .