APC leader, Adams Oshiomole The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiohmole, on Monday dismissed as untrue the reported gang-up by APC governors against his leadership of the party. Oshiomhole had on Sunday in a statement by his press secretary, Simon Ebegbulem, alleged that conservatives within the party are ganging up to pass a vote of no-confidence in him. He said in the statement that his sin was his refusal to allow continued impunity and circumvention of due process being perpetuated in some states. He added that he was not surprised by the gang up, as he never had the illusion that the process of reforming the party was going to be an easy one. But, Oshiohmole, who fielded questions from State House correspondents in Abuja, said only one or two out of the 23 state governors under the platform of the APC were vehemently opposed to his leadership style. He said: “Maybe there is one or two governors who have issues and those issues can only be resolved democratically within the spirit, the letter and all the relevant positions of the APC constitution, the APC Election guidelines and of course the Electoral Act. “The Electoral Act is completely blind and our party’s rules also are completely blind to power but it’s sensitive to procedures; it is sensitive processes. “The good news is that overwhelming majority (of the governors), we have about 23 governors, I think maybe one or two may have some situations they would like to see differently. “But that is the way the world is, but we should uphold the rules. But, it is not correct to suggest that there is a move to remove me. “Yes, one governor has publicly said he would ensure that I’m removed – that is fine. The beauty of democracy is anyone or two could say something but the majority is what matters. “But even those two when they have deeper reflection would recognize that what I have done is to stubbornly insist that the rules are obeyed, nothing more nothing less.’’ Oshiohmole, who described the ongoing political outcry in some quarters as his finest moment, said he would continue to support the interest of the ordinary members of the party against those of the powerful elements or political bigwigs. He said he was very encouraged by the level of participation of members of the party in the political processes including the just concluded party’s primaries across the country. Oshiohmole however declined comment on the Monday’s Supreme Court ruling which set aside an interim order of the Court of Appeal in Port Harcourt, which gave the APC, the go ahead to conduct its Ward, Local Government and State Congresses in Rivers State. He said he needed lawyers’ interpretation of the ruling before passing any comment.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .