Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, the Governor of Lagos State.Photo: Twitter/ AkinwunmiAmbode Residents of Idi-Mangoro and Onipetesi have called on the Lagos State governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, to alleviate their suffering by creating a U-turn at Idi-Mangoro/Onilekere axis along the Lagos-Abeokuta expressway, wondering why government at federal and state levels have continued to turn deaf ears to their plea. Making the appeal yesterday, the chairman, Onipetesi Community Development Association, Elder Kunle Amosun, who disclosed that the federal and state governments have been notified about their plight, said the construction of the U-turn is important because of the incalculable damage and discomfort the present construction of BRT lanes on the Lagos-Abeokuta expressway will cause the community on completion. He argued that their frustration is premised on the fact that if the construction continued without a U-turn on their axis, it will create untold hardship for residents. He noted that on the Agege Motor Road, there are U-turns at almost every bus-stop, which is not the same with Lagos-Abeokuta expressway. He said the legislators representing the communities at the state and national assembly have been to the community, but they seem unperturbed about their plight. He stated that if the U-turn is not created, the negative effects are better imagined than described, as residents driving from Oshodi will get to Egbeda to turn back. He claimed as a result of this, over the years, a lot of man-hour has been wasted. “We strongly believe that one or two U-turn along the axis will save citizens the needless hassle of facing agonising traffic to Dopemu and beyond. It will also alleviate the traffic gridlock for those going beyond our communities to destinations such as Egbeda, Idimu, LASU and Abule-Egba. “The communities include residents in Onipetesi, Onilekere, Cement and Santos layout with a combined estimated population of 980,000 people. Apart from residential buildings, there are many schools, hospitals, markets, three police stations, shops and workshops for artisans.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .