Noodles are staple food savoured by almost everybody. In Nigeria it is cooked and served with delicious ingredients while in other countries like China it is served in a cup with chopsticks or with seafood. Here are facts you should know about this instant food. Noodles is an ancient food Noodles are at least 4000 years old. In 2002, a bowl of noodles believed to be 400 years old was dug up in Qinghai province, China. The earthenware bowl and its preserved contents were found buried beneath three metres of ground at an archaeological site in Lajia. ‘Noodle’is German
The noodle may be originated from Asia but the food’s name most likely has its roots in the German language. It is thought that “noodle” comes from the German word “nudel” which itself comes from “knödel”, meaning dumpling. The instant noodle was invented to cure world hunger Momofuku Ando, a failed Taiwanese-Japanese businessman, spent a year finding a solutuin to the hunger that ravaged the populace aftre Japan’s defeat in WW II hence he came up with the chicken ramen instant noodle. Instant noodles first went on sale in 1958, and hasn’t changed much 270 million portions of instant noodles are now eaten around the world every day according to the World Instant Noodles Association. In Japan, it is polite to slurp noodles It is a sign of appreciation to noisily slurp noodles in Japan In China, noodles symbolise a long life
Noodles are a symbol of long life in China. “Longevity noodles”, which are longer than normal noodles are often eaten at Chinese New Year celebrations. It is considered very unlucky to cut up a strand! The world’s longest noodle was over 3km Long According to The Guinness World Record, the longest noodle was produced by a Chinese food company, Xiangnian Food Co. Ltd. The staff spent 17 hours rolling out the enormous noodle, which was made from a traditional ramen recipe and included 40 kg of bread flour, 26.8 litres of water and 0.6 kg of salt. It took the adjudicator three hours to check that the noodle was just one string and not several noodles joined together in order for the record to stand.