PHOTO: LUCY LADIDI ELUKPO Probe indicted persons in alleged N60b Nigeria Airways fraud 
The House of Representatives yesterday resolved to tackle the challenges associated with adulteration of petroleum products in the country. Adopting a motion sponsored by Joseph Edionwele (PDP: Edo), the House during plenary presided over by Speaker Yakubu Dogara, mandated its committees on Environment and Habitat, as well as Petroleum Resources (Downstream) to prevail on regulatory agencies to step up activities in checkmating adulteration of the products. The committees were charged to continually monitor departments and agencies, as part of their oversight functions and report back to the House on a quarterly basis. While moving the motion, Edionwele expressed concern that adulterated products could be dangerous to consumers, who use them as domestic fuel and for their vehicles. Sergius Ogun (PDP: Edo), who said he once experienced the dangers of adulterated petroleum products, supported the motion. “It is time we called them to order, as people who patronise them end up spending more money to maintain their cars as lives are also involved. This should not be allowed because it can discourage foreign investors,” he said. Also, two members of the House, Hassan Omale and Mohammed Soba from Kogi and Kaduna states formerly announced their decision to dump the parties on the floor of the House. This came after Dogara declared the seat of late Funke Adedoyin (Kwara PDP) who passed on recently vacant. In the committees announced by Dogara, Emmanuel Orkev Jev, who was Chairman, House Committee on Rules and Business was moved to the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Committee and replaced by Edward Pwajok (Plateau APC). Abdulmumini Jibrin who was removed after falling apart with Dogara over last year’s budget padding saga, was appointed Chairman, House Committee on Land Transport. Other committee chairmen include, Dandutse Mutari (FCT Judiciary), Sadiq Abubakar (Human Rights), Mahmoud Mohammed (Housing), Tajudeen Abbas (Solid Minerals), Haliru Jika (Privatisation and Commercialisation), Yerima Ahmad (Constituency Outreach), Lawal Abubakar Garba (Police) and Aminu Sani (population). Dogara also appointed three committees deputy chairmen: Ayo Omidiran (FCT Judiciary), Tope Olayenu (Army) and Ago Joseph (Special Duties). The House passed the Electoral Act Amendment Bill 2018 before adjourning till November 6, 2018 to enable members to carry out their respective oversight duties. Before the bill was passed, Chairman, House Committee on Electoral Matters, Aisha Dukku, said the committee had already addressed issues that President Muhammadu Buhari raised on the Bill. Meanwhile, the House said yesterday that it would investigate and make public the identities of those indicted for looting N60 billion in the defunct Nigerian Airways Limited. It also resolved to identify those involved and indicted by the white paper to ensure that they are prosecuted and made to refund the loot. The resolution was sequel to a motion under matters of urgent public importance, moved by James Faleke (APC Lagos) during Tuesday’s plenary. Faleke noted that before the Buhari administration, the Olusegun Obasabjo-led Federal Government had established the Justice Obiora Nwazota Judicial Commission to probe the company’s operations in 2002.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .