Dr. Jamilu Isyaku Gwamna speaking during at stakeholders meeting at APC Square in Gombe. • APC insists on fielding Zamfara candidates 
The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) says nothing would stop it from fielding candidates for all elective positions in Zamfara State for next year’s poll, stressing that the Independent National Electoral Commission’s (INEC) position on the matter is not binding. This is just as the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Kano Electricity Distribution Company (KEDCO), Dr. Jamilu Isyaku Gwamna, told APC stakeholders in Gombe that President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term in office would ensure maximum security of life and property of Nigerians. Gwamna, who was until last month a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) gubernatorial aspirant in the state, said that working together with an APC governor in Gombe, President Buhari would consolidate his achievements on the fight against Boko Haram and other security challenges in the North-East and across the country. The KEDCO boss remarked that the 2019 general election would for the second time mark the beginning of new things to come TO Nigerian politics and the life of the common man. He therefore called on the people of Gombe State to come out in their thousands and use their Permanent Voter Cards to enthrone the APC gubernatorial candidate in the state, Alhaji Mohammed Inuwa Yahaya, as governor and President Buhari for a second term respectively. While urging Yahaya to be more aggressive and carry his campaign to all nooks and crannies of the state, Gwamna reminded the candidate to explore all available information and enlightenment campaign methods to reach the grassroots. He noted that effective use of the media, both social and conventional, enhances the dissemination of the manifesto and programmes of the party, stressing: “With the little political knowledge and the teeming followers around us we are going to work tirelessly and vigorously to ensure Buhari and APC’s victory in the North-East and Nigeria at large in shaa Allah.” The British-trained engineer assured APC members present at the venue of the meeting in Gombe that he would commit his energy and goodwill to the success of the party in the coming elections, even as he declared his unalloyed loyalty to APC. While describing the party as his original home and final political destination, Gwamna said all hands must be on deck to ensure that APC wins in Gombe and the country at large, reminding the people of the need to cast their votes for Buhari, whom he said has done so much for the North-East. He noted, “It is payback time for the good people of the region. It is our turn now to reciprocate the good works of Mr. President for the good he has done for us in his first term and I am sure that more good things will come if we give Mr. President the second chance.” Reacting to the statement credited to INEC’s chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, that the commission stands by its decision to bar it from elections in Zamfara State, APC maintained that nothing would stop it from going ahead to field candidates from the state. Spokesperson of the party, Mallam Lanre Onilu, argued that the party would surely satisfy requirements for submission of candidates from Zamfara state, adding, “INEC cannot say that we don’t have candidates for election until the deadline has expired. We have options of consensus, direct and indirect primaries and we are going to apply, like we have done in other states, our energies, time and concerns to pick our candidates. I can assure you that before the October 18 deadline, we are going to meet all INEC requirements and we are going to submit names of all the candidates for not only Zamfara State but all the 36 states and the FCT.”  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .