 Group Marketing Executive, Dangote Flour Mills Plc, Funmi Bolarinwa (left); Managing Director/ Chief Executive,Thabo Mabe; President Dangote Industries Limited, Aliko Dangote; and Executive Director, Commercial, Halima Dangote, at the 2018 World Puff puff day festival in Lagos.  The Executive Director, Dangote Flour Mills, Halima Dangote, explained that the move was apt to put an end to hunger in communities with little or no access to nutritious food. Leveraging the World Puff Puff Day in which over 50 confectioners were engaged to produce over 30,000 pieces of the local snack, as part of activities marking the day, the Flour Miller explained that the event was organised to celebrate Nigeria’s creativity in the local delicacy as well as further create awareness for the company’s 1.5kg size launched in March this year. The firm added that the event was part of its efforts to give back to the society.In her words, “Puff puff is actually a good delicacy in Nigeria, what we want to do is look at the Nigerian delicacy that encompasses the Dangote kitchen, which is our salt, sugar and flour, so we decided to dedicate a day to celebrate puff puff and it will celebrated on the 27th of October from now onward every year. We are here to set the Guinness Book of Record. “This is giving back to the community. Through this event, we’ve been able to empower the confectioners and all the puff puff fried in relation to this programme, were given out free to feed the community.” Also speaking at the event, the Chief Executive Officer, Dangote Flour Mills, Thabo Mabe, said the puff puff festival is one of the most important festivals to showcase its 1.5kg bread flour which he said is fortified with Vitamin A and micronutrients. “Our flour is destined for the customer use, we have confectionery flour, flour for bread, biscuits. Our aim is to design a formulation which is end use focused. Our 1.5kg flour is easy to store, easy to carry and easy to use,” he said.He said the event would also see the company breaking the Guinness book of record for the highest kilogramme of flour used for baking, which currently stands at 200kilogrammes. The Group Marketing Executive, Funmilayo Bolarinwa, Dangote Flour Mills, said the company has brought about 50 confectioners selected from different parts of Lagos to break the Guinness book of record to produce puff puff with about 50 kiogammes bags of flour which is approximately about 2 metric tonnes of flour. “Today we are setting a new world record and we are exporting one of the greatest things we love; we are exporting to the rest of the world and celebrating the love of puff puff. From Nigeria, it has extended to the rest of West Africa and everyone loves it. We are proud makers of quality flour. Our flour can be used for all sorts of varieties and we have also brought our flour to the level where it would be affordable for all. Our flour is fortified with Vitamin A and it is equally fortified with micronutrients. You can be sure that your children’s dietary requirements are taken care of,” she said.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .