 Atiku Abubakar  But no sooner had Chidoka’s name escaped Obasanjo’s lips than many foundation members of PDP, who have eyes on the 2023 presidential election, began clandestine lobbying for a technocrat to be paired with the former vice president. It was against that notion that names of former Finance Minister, Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo and Prof. Barth Nnaji surfaced, ostensibly to push back on the considerations being given to the immediate past governor of Anambra State, Mr. Peter Obi. Those who are pushing for Okonjo-Iweala argue that her Delta/Abia combination origin based on paternity and marriage achieves the Southeast/South-South solidarity in addition to her clout in the international community. Meanwhile, pressures are said to be mounting also from the Southwest, which claims that ceding the presidential running mate to the zone would go a long way to mitigate the loss of the national chairmanship during last December national convention. The name of incumbent President of African Development Bank (AfDB) and former Minister of Agriculture, Akinwumi Ayodeji Adesina, is being touted as a feasible candidate on the score of Southwest accommodation and buy-in of the international community. Southwest lobbyists are also waving the flag of speculated plots by the Presidency to fetch Osinbajo’s replacement from the Southeast as running mate for President Muhammadu Buhari in next year’s election to convince the region of its sincerity of ceding power to the zone after Buhari. While the Southeast and Southwest push their arguments for PDP to select the next vice presidential candidate from their zones, multiple sources told The Guardian that Atiku was moved by the fact of Senator David Mark’s position on gender balance to consider Okonjo-Iweala in addition to her knowledge of international finance and development issues. Senator Mark had, while addressing PDP delegates at the Adokie Amasiemeka Stadium, Port Harcourt, last Saturday, noted that he was the only presidential aspirant among the one dozen to appoint a woman as Director General of his campaign organization. It was also gathered that former President Obasanjo is excited by the likelihood of  Okonjo-Iweala being adopted, which prompted his recent comments that a president knowledgeable in economic matters is what Nigeria needs to fix the damage done by the present administration to the economy.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .