 Mayorkun with UNICAL fans  It was five days out of the ordinary hustle and bustle of school activities and MTN Nigeria fired on all cylinders to make it a superlative experience for all. From Monday, October 1 to Friday, October 5, 2018, the whole school was buzzing about the many activities at the Retail Village, where exciting activities ruled the day – from life-size table games, to dancing competitions, etc. The student body had been talking about the ‘Celebrity Surprise’ visit that was going to take place at an undisclosed hostel on campus. Students were encouraged to vote for the hostel of their pick and since no one knew who was coming the excitement that took over the school was infectious. On Wednesday evening, students poured in from around the Campus to the Malabor Girls hostel in UNICAL to be thrilled and the Pulse Invasion did not miss a beat. The DJ kept the students jumping on their feet. Comedy took its turn when the MC switched to his funny side and had the students in stitches. Soon whispers swept through the audience – some people had spotted someone that resembled DMW signee Mayorkun. Screams of excitement later confirmed the whispers; the Tear Rubber singer had landed on the campus and was headed for the field near the Malabor Hostel. An energised Mayorkun stormed the stage and wowed the ecstatic audience who sang every line to his songs. He was ready for Calabar and Calabar was excited for him. When the introductory tune for Tear Rubber filtered through the speakers, the screams of the audience hit a crescendo! By the time he left, the audience was asking for more. ‘Too little time’, they complained affectionately. Who wouldn’t want more? It was the perfect way to end that day – music from one of the biggest chart toppers in the country in a field, great food and even better company. Meanwhile, the Eko Hotel & Suites was alive recently, as ten of Nigeria’s biggest music stars – Falz, Kwam1, Olamide, Tiwa Savage, Simi, DJ Cuppy, Slim Case, Tekno, Small Doctor and Chidinma– thrilled music lovers at the Supremacy Concert 2018 supported by the leading ICT company, MTN Nigeria.
 
The concert, which has become a foremost annual gathering to celebrate Nigeria’s Independence, seeks to promote Nigerian music as well as showcase what truly makes the entertainment industry in Nigeria unique. Speaking on MTN’s support for the concert, Richard Iweanoge, General Manager, Brands and Communication, MTN Nigeria stated that, “MTN Nigeria has always supported the interests of Nigerians and music is no exception. With platforms like MTN Music+, MTN has continued to show its support for Nigerian music. MTN Music+ is currently the largest music distributor in Africa generating billions of naira for the Nigerian music industry through the monetization of Caller Ring Back Tunes utilizing local musical content.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .