 Senate Leader, Dr. Ahmad Lawan  Senate Minority leader,Biodun Olujimi, said in an interview yesterday that Nigerians should hold Senate Leader, Ahmad Lawan, responsible should crisis erupts in the upper chamber.The call became necessary following the tension in the upper chamber as it convenes from its long break.Lawan was reported to have threatened that the APC senators would remove Saraki, through an impeachment process when it reopens for legislative activities today. Olujimi said: “The Senate leader, Ahmad Lawan, should not cause tension and problem in the Senate. He should not promise the APC what they cannot deliver. “Nigerians should hold him responsible if the Senate is unable to sit, because the leadership of the Senate is not by party affiliation, but through an election by all the senators. “Lawan should be reminded that the election of the present presiding officers was done, even when he was not present. He should be reminded that responsible senators who attended the inauguration of the Senate, as announced by President Muhammadu Buhari, elected the presiding officers.” Olujimi urged Lawan, as the Senate leader, to be conversant with the procedure for the removal of presiding officers. She declared: “For the avoidance of doubt, the Senate is solidly behind the presiding offers, and we will resist any attempt that would offset the calm situation in the Senate. “The Senate leader should please note that we are returning to handle all outstanding issues and should be held responsible, if we are not able to accomplish them.” She asked that, as one of the principal officers of the Senate, Lawan should reframe from beating drums of war that would do no one any good.“We have resolved as senators of the Federal Republic to face our duties squarely, and pray that no one distracts us. The unity of the Senate is more important than anybody’s inordinate ambition,” she added.  To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .