 Court gravel. Photo/ junctioncity  At the resumed hearing of the matter before Justice Babs Kuewumi, the second prosecution witness, Teslim Ajuwon, a Compliance Officer with Zenith Bank Plc tendered account opening package and statement of account belonging to one Felicia Nnenna Abubakar. The EFCC had arraigned the accused persons for allegedly converted sums of N6. 850, 447, 609. 90  billion belonging to the Agency (NAMA) to their personal use and they pleaded not guilty to the 24 count charges preferred against them. Others standing trial alongside Abdulsalami are: Adegorite Olumuyiwa, Agbolade Segun, Adegorite’s wife, Joy Ayodele Adegorite, who is the Managing Director of Multeng Travels and Tours Limited; Clara Aliche, and  two Limited Liability companies Randville Investment Limited, Multeng Travels and Tours Limited, allegedly used as to defraud the agency. Others accused persons are: Bola Akinribido and Sesebor Abiodun. The 24 amended charges, bordering on conspiracy, fraud, forgery and unlawful conversion of funds. However, when Ajuwon was led-in-evidence by the prosecution counsel, Omewa Nnemeka, he also tendered account opening package and statements of account of other accused persons in the charge except the former NAMA Managing Director and was admitted as exhibit B2 and B3 respectively. In his explanation, Ajuwon told court that the first accused, Abdulsalami was not part of the inflows to the accounts tendered. Added he did not tender account opening package and account statement of the second and third accused persons. Upon conclusion of his evidence, Nnemeka therefore asked the court for an adjournment to enable them bring two more witnesses.Justice Kuewumi subsequently adjourned the matter till December 12, for continuation of trial. Part of the charges marked FHC/ L/ 145C/2016 read that all the accused persons and one Nnamdi Udoh still at large, were alleged to have between January 31, 2013 and September 3, 2015, with intent to defraud and by false pretence conspired together to induced the Agency to deliver the sum of N2, 847, 523, 975 billion, to Delosa Limited, Air Sea Delivery Limited and Sea Schedules Systems Ltd under the pretence that the said sum represented the cost of clearing consignments belonging to the Agency. The EFCC also alleged that the defendants on December 19, 2014, forged a document titled “ Guaranty Trust Bank Plc Apapa 2-Burma road NCS Payment Acknowledgement receipt number: 05821082014177651” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .