 Stephen Keshi Stadium  Despite repeated assurances by Delta State Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, that all facilities at the Stephen Keshi Stadium, Asaba, have been completed, indications emerged yesterday that the scoreboard inside the main bowl might not be ready for toady’s Aiteo Cup final between Rangers of Enugu and Kano Pillars. Okowa was conducted round the stadium on Monday by the Commissioner For Information, Patrick Ukah, and the Chairman, Delta Sports Commission, Tony Okowa, and at the end, declared that the facilities was completed and ready for the final. He said: “I think the facilities are set for the 2018 Aiteo Cup finals. The pitch is ready and the floodlights are completed and fine-tuned. Everything is ready. I have seen the dressing rooms, the medical zone, the media zone and the pitch. I can tell you we are ready for the finals.” The Guardian, however, learnt yesterday that the contractors working on scoreboard could not meet the deadline given to them. “The scoreboard is very important for a big football match like this, but there is no way it can be ready for the Aiteo Cup final tomorrow (today),” an official of the commission told The Guardian yesterday. “But as we speak, the floodlight is ready. The electronic pitch panel is also working well. I don’t really know why the contractors couldn’t finish work on the scoreboard for this final. I am sure the governor won’t be happy.” The Guardian recalls that both the scoreboard and floodlight of the Asaba stadium were not in place, when the city hosted the African Senior Athletics Championship in August. Meanwhile, Kano Pillars have vowed to beat Rangers this afternoon to end their long wait in the Aiteo Cup. Kano Pillars last played in the finals far back 1991, when they lost to El-kanemi warriors. Enugu Rangers are equally eying the trophy, after losing four times in the finals at different occasions. The last time they won the Aiteo Cup (formally known as FA Cup and Federations Cup) was far back 1983. Though, Rangers won the 2015/2016 NPFL title after 32 years. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .