   It was gathered that the suspect allegedly threatened to kill the DPO if he fails to release a gang member, Austine Oghieh, who was arrested earlier during a fracas at Oworonshoki area of Lagos State. For fear of his life, the DPO drew the attention of the Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal, to the development. Based on the complaint, Edgal directed all divisions and police units in the state to go after the gang leader. A police source said the suspect who had been troubling the command was eventually tracked down to his hideout at Obawole area of Iju, where he was arrested.The Lagos police boss, Imohimi Edgal, who paraded the suspect yesterday said on October 11, 2018, at about 9:00a.m. the DPO Oworoshoki, CSP Ifeanyi Owo received a call from an unknown number, threatening him that because he arrested their member, he would not know peace again and that he would be killed and his station burnt to ashes. He said that on receipt of the threat, the DPO quickly contacted him and that he in turn, directed the officer in charge of Anti-kidnapping Squad to ensure that the culprit was arrested.He said: “Consequently, the squad went underground and deciphered the unknown number to be MTN number 07033719352 owned by one Austine Oghieh, aged 38. He was traced to No. 15, Fakeye Street, off Jimoh Yusuf Obawole, Fagba, where he was apprehended. The suspect confessed to the crime. On completion of investigation, he will be charged to court accordingly.” In his confessional statement, the suspect admitted calling the DPO on phone over the arrest of a friend. He, however, denied threatening the DPO nor belonging to any cult gang. He said: “The facial mark on me is a tribal mark and not cult signs.” Meanwhile, a former worker of Emzor Pharmaceutical Industries Limited, Maduike Chukwnonye, has been arrested over an attempt to sell illicit substance suspected to be codeine to a BBC correspondent in Lagos.Besides trying to sell the illicit substance to the reporter, the police said the suspect also sold the drugs to unauthorized persons since he was sacked in May 2018. The police added that the suspect tried to flee the country when he realized that he was being wanted by the police. It was gathered that the suspect was recently caught on camera while selling restricted drugs to a BBC undercover investigator, one Adejuwon Soyinka, a.k.a. Mr. Nohnson. Edgal, who paraded the suspect before newsmen yesterday at the Command Headquarters, said the trail of the suspect started on May 1, after Emzor Pharmaceutical reported a case of unlawful distribution of controlled substances in breach of the drugs laws of Nigeria by Madubuike Chkwunonye. Edgal said the company alleged that while in the employment of Emzor, the subject had access to limited quantities of Emzolyn with codeine for purpose of distribution to licensed retail pharmacies under his assigned territory. He said that due to greed for money, the suspect knowingly supplied the controlled drugs to persons who are not supposed to have access to them contrary to the dictates of the laws of Nigeria. He added that the suspect who had been on the run since May, was arrested by operatives of the command attached to Area ‘D’ Headquarters, Idi Iroko border town in Ogun State while trying to escape into Cotonou, Benin Republic.”In his statement, he averred that he was only trying to meet his sales target and that the BBC man was introduced to him by one Pascal as a genuine businessman without verifying the former’s identity as a pharmacist. He regretted selling the controlled substances to unauthorized persons.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .