Controverisal rapper, Kanye West has made a return back to Twitter after a nine days breaks. He made his return on Saturday with a couple of videos about mind control. This is coming after the Yeezy designer deleted his Instagram and Twitter accounts last week. The multiple Grammy awards-winning rapper posted two short videos and one soundbite before a longer selfie video that lasted nearly 10 minutes. In the main video recorded via Periscope, Kanye spoke at length about the mind and “unprogramming” ourselves. He said: “I just wanna talk about mind control. You know when people try to influence you through social media and try to tell you what to do, or if people post something that’s positive on Instagram it gets taken down if it’s not part of a bigger agenda,” he began. “That’s, like, mind control…That’s the poison that’s happening with social media.” The video was filled with tangential comments and non sequiturs, but the rapper kept reiterating the idea of mind control and programming of the brain. He went on, “I feel like when people try to tell me what to do, they’re touching my brain,” he said. “If someone tries to tell me what I can do, what I can wear, I feel like they’re touching my brain.” He went on to provide some visual examples as to how it feels to have your brain touched. He explained, “Imagine cutting your skull open and someone touched your brain. Imagine how that would hurt you. That’s how it feels when someone tells me what I can or can’t do.” Kanye West Photo Bloomberg Kanye also criticized social media and its effect on users, especially when people care too much about how many followers they have or likes they get on a picture. On this he said, “Social media is a lie,” he told viewers. “Social media told you Hillary Clinton was going to win, and she didn’t win. Social media told you nobody likes me, but everybody loves me. Everybody loves Ye.” He continued, “Unprogram your minds. Open your heart. Let your conscience be free.”  “The spirits will give me new ideas. They’re in the air. We don’t own them, we are merely a vessel,” he explained. He created a mantra for himself as well. A few, actually. One was “Open up your heart. Let your spirit guide you. Let your conscience be free.” The other saying was, “We are creative individuals. We work from our heart and our spirit. We’re not corny.” Kanye pointed fingers at social media and the radio for cementing notions about the rapper in people’s heads. He said in the video, “Don’t get too gassed up when you hear other stuff on the radio. That’s all programming. That’s all part of a system to control your mind. To control my mind, to make me look like I’m crazy to you.” He confirmed he was in Africa, most likely finishing up his Yanhdi album, which was originally slated for release at the end of September. Mind control https://t.co/YDYXQ45bDL — ye (@kanyewest) October 13, 2018 It will be recalled that following Kanye’s comments about Fela’s spirit living through him, he was called out by the latter’s son, Seun Kuti who said his father’s spirit doesn’t live through the Life of Pablo rapper.