Atiku Abubakar of PDP Nigeria’s former vice-president and presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Abubakar Atiku, has promised that not less than 40% of his cabinet will be made of Nigerian youths and women if elected president in the 2019 general elections. Atiku, who is contesting the office of the Nigerian president for the fourth time, hopes to unseat incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in next year’s election. The PDP candidate who has been campaigning on growing the country economically said it will only be achieved if women and youths are given room in government. With youths and women making up the larger part of the Nigerian demographic, the presidential candidate vows improved inclusion for them. “Nigeria under Buhari is now the world HQ for extreme poverty. If we are to change that, we must empower women and youths,” Atiku tweeted. “Therefore, I give an undertaking that if by the grace of God, I am elected by you the good people of Nigeria, at least 40% of my cabinet would be women and youths.” After the nation exited a recession in 2017, Nigeria has made slow gains economically but the threat of another recession looms according to the Monetary Policy Committee. Nigeria is currently witnessing a migration of its middle class professionals to more conducive pastures for their families and businesses. Atiku, comparing his tenure as vice president with the current state of affairs boasted his government had policies that aided growth of businesses and caused a return of businesses to the nation. “During my time in government, we designed our policies to help young people grow – stronger banks, telecoms etc. Many returned to Nigeria to start successful businesses,“ “Today, those young people are leaving again, to Canada etc. We are losing our best doctors & professionals.” He added that his administration if elected will create an environment suitable for the creation of wealth for Nigerians. “Our policy document which is ready and will be unveiled soon is dedicated primarily to creating an enabling environment for Nigerian youth and women to return to the path of wealth creation and gainful employment,” Atiku said. To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .