Dalung charges Team Nigeria on patriotism, fair play The day have been waiting for is finally here. Nigeria’s first entrants in the Youth Olympic Games golf event, Georgia Oboh and Jordan Thompson say they are ready for whatever the opposition will throw at them at the event, which tees off at the Hurlingham Club in Buenos Aires, Argentina this morning. Oboh will face 31 others in the two-day qualifying round of the girls’ category, while Thompson (15) will also battle with 31 other boys drawn from across the world. Looking forward to a successful campaign, Oboh yesterday revealed that she is in high spirit for the tee-off having been waiting for this moment since her arrival in Argentina on October 1. South Africa and Nigeria are the two African nations competing in the golf event of the Youth Games and a determined Oboh said she is poised to do Nigeria proud“I am used to the course now. It promises to be exciting because I have seen a lot of good golfers and I am hoping to give my best by making Nigeria proud,” Oboh said. After two days of the qualifying round, the top scorers in the boys and girls events will compete in the final round, which tees off on Thursday.For the golf event, hosts, Argentina was given a team to compete and a further five teams of two athletes was decided by the Tripartite Commission. The remaining 26 teams were decided by adding the ranking place of the top ranked eligible male and female golfers on the World Amateur Golf Rankings released on July 25 2018. The 26 NOCs with the lowest combined rankings qualified. All athletes must be amateur golfers who hold a recognised handicap index not exceeding 6.4. Nigeria received a quota of two athletes to compete by the tripartite committee with Thompson competing in the boys’ individual, while Oboh will battle for honours in the girls’ individual. The duo will partner for the mixed event.Meanwhile, Sports Minister, Solomon Dalung has charged Team Nigeria to compete clean and fair at the games, which opened at the weekend. Dalung gave the charge in Argentina while addressing the young athletes.“I charge you to be worthy ambassadors of our great country Nigeria both on the field of play and outside the sporting arena. You should desist from acts that can dent the image of our great country. As you all know, the menace of drugs is threatening sports globally and has led to embarrassing situations as well as sanctions of athletes of great sporting nations. Therefore, I urge you to keep the integrity of our nation intact by competing clean and fair in this Youth Olympic Games.” To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .