 [File] The Governor of the host state, Abiola Ajimobi in his his goodwill message enjoined the association to raise the bar in service delivery for the respective government.<br />Photo:  Twitter/AAAjimobi  The governor emerged winner with 2,659 votes against his closest challenger who polled a total of 168 votes. Ademola Seriki who led electoral panel described the poll as another successful primary that the committee had conducted. “You heard what happened in some states that conducted the same exercise. Some were not as successful as Oyo State and I give the credit to the aspirants and the entire members of this great party for making this exercise worthwhile,” Seriki said “I salute the calmness and maturity of the aspirants that have so far participated in the primaries. We look forward to further cooperation of all stakeholders in the remaining primaries,” he added The incumbent governor while responding to the result of the primary, described it as free and fair despite the earlier delay. “I look forward to going back to the Red Chamber to contribute my quota to the national debate and the progress of the nation. I wish to bring to fore my parliamentary experience to grow a Nigeria that the next generation will be proud of,” Ajimobi said. “As you have all witnessed, the election was free, fair and transparent. You can see that it was transparent and I am happy about it,” he added. The two-term serving governor said the people of Oyo South Senatorial district should expect greater performance from him at the Senate, which will go beyond his “unprecedented achievements as governor.” Ajimobi in 2003 and 2007 represented the Oyo South senatorial district, which include Ibarapa North, Ibarapa East, Ibarapa Central, Ido, Ibadan North, Ibadan South-East, Ibadan South-West, Ibadan North-East and Ibadan North-West. Read More: APC clears Amosun, Ajimobi, five other governors for senatorial race To enable commenting and other interactive features, please switch to the more advanced .